Name something you need to go fishing.
Name something you might put on a salad.
Name a word or phrase that contains "belly".
==========Tell me something you can never find when you need it.
==========Name something you might put on toast.
==========Name a place in the US where people go to follow their dreams.
==========Name something people do on weekends.
Name something fake that many people have.
Besides money, what would you like more of?
Name a job that is dangerous.
Name something little girls don't like.
Name a snack you might have at the movies.
Name something you might eat for breakfast.
Name a reason you might receive flowers.
Name something that is never there when you need it.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "S".
Name a manufacturer of men's cologne.
Name a reason someone might cancel a date.
Name something you always pack before you go on vacation.
Tell me the shape of a UFO.
Name something a clown has.
Tell me a place people work that starts with the letter "P".
Tell me an animal you associate with India.
Name another way of saying "goodbye".
Tell me something a person cannot legally do without a license.
Name an animal you might see on Old McDonald's farm.
Name something you might see in a children's playground.
Tell me something you might do at a concert.
Name an NFL receiver who has caught a lot of touchdowns.
Name a letter of the alphabet that isn't used very much.
Name a body part that many love songs mention.
Name a Paris tourist attraction.
Name an item of clothing you remove at the door.
Name something people develop.
Tell me something that is harder to do with braces on your teeth.
Name a US city with more young than elderly people.
Name a reason you might not answer the door when you're home.
Name a city in Europe that starts with "M".
Name something that changes from green to yellow.
Name an animal that has paws.
Name something you might knit.
Name a Greek God that everyone knows.
Name something you bake.
Name a situation where you might be with a group of people, but are not allowed to talk to each other.
Name something you shouldn't pick up with your bare hands.
Complete the phrase, "lost in..."
Name a place where you might lose your keys.
Name a real-life situation where people might spontaneously break into song.
Name a food that is often found at a barbecue.
Tell me something people jump into.
Name something you might have on your lap.
Name an animal you might see at an acquarium.
Name something you can get a traffic ticket for.
Tell me something mothers tell their children not to do in public.
Name something you look forward to as you get older.
Name a profession that requires you to smile a lot.
Name something found in every home.
Name a country known for its beaches.
Name something you do when you are angry.
Name a country where it's hot all year around.
Name something country singers like to sing about.
Name something that requires a lot of practice.
Name a way people try to make themselves look younger.
Name something that stains your clothes.
Name something that might make a first bad impression.
Name something you can ride.
Name a popular TV game show.
Name a bad time to get sick.
Name a professional athlete involved in a scandal.
Name a reason why your eyes might water up.
Name something you might find in a kid's room.
Tell me something people do at home when they can't afford to go out.
Name a tropical fruit.
Tell me a sport that you don't have to be tall to play.
Name an unusual place where babies are sometimes born.
Name a white animal.
Name the age when men start losing their hair.
Name the season when the most crimes occur.
Tell me how many pounds a newborn weighs.
Name something you own that requires a good deal of money to maintain.
Name a French food.
Name something a cowboy does at least once every Western Movie.
Tell me something you wish you were born with.
Name a job that involves a lot of driving.
Tell me somewhere you'd expect to meet a ghost.
Name a popular excuse people give for not going to the gym.
Name a place where you press buttons.
Name something you'd hate to accidentally fold up in a sleeper sofa.
Name a body part you might need to replace as you get older.
Name a food someone with no teeth might enjoy.
Name something that has flashing lights.
Name something that needs to be wet before it works.
Name something you are more apt to rent than buy.
Where should you hide during an earthquake?
Name something you don't like to discuss with strangers.
Name a member of the wedding party.
We asked 100 people: Name a famous hotel chain.
Real or fictional, name a woman that a mugger might be afraid of.
Name a snack that's sold at sporting events.
Name something that firemen carry that regular people don't.
What would you find at a frat party?
Name something that follows the word 'fried'.
Name a food that's been accused of being an artery clogger.
Name a word that begins with the word "hot".
Name a gift your partner would not appreciate receiving.
Name something about which people say: "You have to be born with it to have it."
Name a movie that has magic in it.
Name something a child might throw a temper tantrum over.
Name a reason where you might not get hired after an interview.
Name a food item you might peel.
Name something you would NOT like to win as a prize on a game show.
Name an animal you expect to see on an African Safari.
Name a country that gets a lot of visitors.
Name something you buy that you use mainly in the morning.
Name someone who might bake you a cake.
Name a profession that is very stressful.
Tell me an animal that people don't usually eat.
Name something people do on Facebook.
Name something you buy a spouse for a wedding anniversary present.
Name something you might do on a date.
Name something you might find in a doctor's waiting room.
Name something you might buy at a flea market.
Name a food that starts with the letter "S".
Name an animal a human might be able to outrun.
Name something you might do on Facebook.
Name something you might dig up.
Name something commonly found in fairy tales.
Name something you might only wear on a special occasion.
Name a quality that is important in a spouse.
Name a country you would not like to live in.
Name something people might trip over.
Name something that slows down the line at a fastfood restaurant.
Name something you might replace after a divorce.
Name something you know about Russia.
Tell me something the human body had lots of.
Name something you associate with Ireland.
Name a woman's name that is only 3 letters.
Name something that is made out of glass.
Name a U.S. city that's on the coast.
Name a vegetable kids hate to eat.
Name something every village has at least one of.
Name another word for "slow".
Give me a word that means the opposite of "normal".
Tell me something you associate with Ancient Egypt.
Name something you never clean in your house.
Name something you would not want to wake up next to.
Name a job someone with claustrophobia shouldn't do.
What do you call someone that scares easily.
Name a famous boy band.
Name an ugly dog breed.
Name a place where you might have to stand in line.
Name a type of pasta.
Name something you might see on a trip to Paris.
Name another word for "cold".
Name something that a ship from the Revolutionary War might have had more than one of.
Name something at a cookout someone might ask to be passed to them.
Name something women think they know more about than men.
Name something a recruit in the military might spend a lot of time doing.
Name something you would miss if you were not in the U.S. for the 4th of July.
Name something people might ask for at a cookout.
Name something people ride in a 4th of July parade.
Name something you might leave running.
Name a game you might play at a 4th of July party.
Name something people do everyday to show their patriotism.
Name something that is an American natural resource.
Name something that might creak.
Name something you would expect to see at a gym.
Name something in your house that you hate to clean.
Name a dessert that might come in red, white, and blue.
Name something specific someone might ask for when ordering a hamburger.
Name something you might clean.
Name something you would eat in Mexico.
Name something you put on your teeth.
Name a public place you might see someone snoring.
Name an accessory you might buy for the 4th of July.
Name something impossible to do while standing up.
Name a fruit that is red.
Name the toughest U.S. President.
What might be served if the U.S. were still a British colony?
What might you give a kid on the 4th of July?
Name something the human body has lots of.
Besides hotdogs, name something you would find on a hotdog vendor's cart.
Name the most romantic place to propose.
What words would you use to describe the 4th of July.
Name something that people in the military use all the time.
Name something that makes you feel better.
Name a part of the body that starts to wrinkle as you age.
Name something you push.
Name a famous baseball player.
Name a famous city that is featured in a song.
If you could not live in the U.S., which country would you want to live in?
Name a yellow fruit.
Name a famous U.S. street.
Name something teenagers cannot live without.
Name something a doctor might have.
Name a part of the body that often gets sunburned.
Name an animal whose bite can kill.
Name something that can destroy a city.
Name a vegetable people grow in their garden.
Tell me someone you might spend Valentines Day with when you are not in a relationship.
Name something people do with their mouth.
Fact or fiction, name a famous spacecraft.
Name a reason you get butterflies in your stomach.
Name a country in the Middle East.
Name something a dog likes to play with.
Name a food item you peel.
Name a food that gets bigger when you cook it.
Name something you wouldn't want to buy at a thrift store.
Name a food that is usually a side dish.
Name a band from the 80's that is still popular today.
Name something you expect to see at Buckingham Palace.
Give me another name for "house".
Name something a high school student might do in gym class.
Name something you might freeze.
Name something you might do while visiting New York City.
Name a soft drink.
Name something you can draw a picture with.
Name something a teenager might bring to school.
Name a fruit people eat with cheese.
Name a game people might play in their living rooms.
Name something people buy that some like big and other prefer small.
Name something you keep in the garage.
Name a quality you find desirable in people.
Name something you might have to get a credit check for.
Name something a person might do as part of spring cleaning
Name something you do when a telemarketer calls.
Name a place with lots of volcanos
Name A Sport That Involves Throwing Something
Name A Celebrity That Might Make Your Spouse Jealous
Name something you eat at the movies.
Name Something A Hairdresser Uses
Name A State That Attracts A Lot Of Tourists
Name A Common Tool You Might Find In Your Garage
Name A Band From The 60's That Is Still Popular Today
Name A Famous Turtle
Name Something You Would Give To Your Child But Not Your Boss
Name Something You Would NOT Want To See At The Beach
Name A Famous Vampire Series
Name An Animal Old Macdonald Has On His Farm
Name Something Plants Need To Grow
Name Something You Climb
Name Someone You Might Be Nervous About Meeting For The First Time
Name A Country People Go To Ski
Name something you would give up if you were training for a marathon.
Name an authority figure.
Name a popular musical.
Name something you associate with the Pacific Northwest
Name Something You Associate With The Superbowl?
Name a breed of dog that would barely leave enough room for you in bed.
Name something people do just before eating dinner.
Name somethign in the bedroom a wife might throw at her husband when she's angry.
How many kids are in a grade school class?
Name a food that comes in a can.
If you overheard the word "moose" in a conversation, what might they be talking about?
Name an occupation in which you meet a lot of drunk people.
If you're making love outside, name an animal that might try to get in on the action.
If a football player looses his cup, what might he put down his pants for protection?
Name something a doctor might pull out of a person.
Name something babies throw out of the crib.
Name a part of your family's budget that's costing more than ever before.
Name a sport played by two players at a time.
Name something a housefly wouldn't want to see you holding.
Tell me something people make reservations for.
What might you see at a baseball game?
Name a place with lots of volcanoes.
Name a romantic place you might go on a date.
Name something a bride wants to be huge.
Name a piece of furniture you might see in someone's living room.
Name a way a roommate might drive you crazy.
Name a play a high schooler might read.
Name a city that should never host the Superbowl.
Name something you might put on nachos.
Name a period in time you would like to travel to.
Name a moving violation you might be ticketed for.
Name a popular baseball team.
Name a breakfast cereal that adults love and children hate.
Name something you would applaud.
Name a professional you might hire when something is wrong with your house.
Name something a lazy person might train their dog to fetch for them.
Name a famous James Bond villain.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular juice.
Name something you would hate to be allergic to.
Tell me a person children often learn about in school.
Tell me something you might see on a trip to New York City.
Name something you might blow on.
Tell me something you do to prepare for a party.
Name something you might see at a rock concert.
Name a way to attract a person's attention.
Name something in your house that's easy to break.
Name something you can overdo.
Name a word you would use to describe a mobster.
Name your favorite Disney villain.
Name a place where you shouldn't use your cell phone.
Name a place you would NOT want to spill your coffee.
If Aretha Franklin's the Queen of Soul, who's the princess?
Name a job a person might apply for at a grocery store.
Name a party game that might be more fun to play nude.
Name something people love to give you their opinion on.
Name something you do to show your kids who's boss.
Name another word for 'go'.
Name a common superstition.
Name something that might be spikey.
Tell me something you don't want to be caught doing at work.
Tell me something you would feel uncomfortable talking to your grandmother about.
Name something people hate being interrupted while doing.
Name a holiday that is associated with big sales.
Name a part of the body that begins with "S".
Name a celebrity you wish you could trade lives with.
Name something you buy that's disposable.
Name somewhere you might ride your bicycle to.
Name something associated with "Star-Trek".
Name a famous man whose last name is "Ford".
Name a hairstyle that used to be popular but is NOT anymore.
Name something you might buy for a cat.
Name a sport that involves a lot of running.
Name an animal a human could outrun.
Name something you might see advertised during the Superbowl.
Name something you associate with the Vatican.
Name another word for 'full'.
Name an actress who starred in Charlie's Angles.
Name something you hope you have milk to go with.
Name someone you'd hate to call by the wrong name.
When you're at a restaurant, name something you do NOT want to see your waiter do.
Tell me something you might eat in Mexico.
Name a tropical island.
Name something you would hate to be out of order.
Name a famous band from the 90s.
Name a situation where it would be ok to break the speed limit.
Name an outdated form of communication.
Name something you might see in an alleyway.
Name something people do at parties.
Name something you have with you all the time.
Name something you buy that you use mainly in the mornings.
Name someone you tip around the holidays.
Name something that US government spends too much money on.
We asked 100 people: Name something a dog might bury in a yard.
Tell me something a person might do before bed that might make it hard for them to sleep.
Name something you think of when you think of Russia.
Name a U.S. president who was known for his way with words.
Name a part of your hand.
Name a place that gets a lot of earthquakes.
Name something about a vacation that costs a lot of money.
Name something Japanese that Americans love.
Name a game you might play in a casino.
Name something that is hard to wash off.
How old is Mindy?
Name a celebrity who you recognize by their voice alone.
Past or present, name an all star hockey player.
Tell me something you might do if you're feeling blue.
Name something you might do before moving.
Name something associated with Brazil.
Name a recording artist whose name begins with the letter 'L'.
We asked 100 people: Name something you bring to a convention.
Name a character from the South Park series.
Name something you can't live without.
Name something inapropriate for a wedding speech.
Give me a word that follows 'Over the ...'
Name a profession with overcaffeinated employees.
Name an influential African American writer.
Name a video game console.
Name a gift you might give to your partner to apologize for something you did.
Name something people overdo.
Name something you might see on TV on Halloween.
Name a profession that traditionally has more women than men.
Name a section you might find in a bookstore.
Name something that takes up too much of your time.
Name something you get too much of when you're a teenager.
Name a piece of furniture that is often made from wood.
give me a mans name that's 3 letters long
A Mans Name That Is 3 Letters Long
Name a sport you might play on a sunny day.
Name a Julia Roberts movie.
What's something you've fallen out of at least once in your life?
Name a woman known for having nice legs.
Name a kitchen utensil you could NOT live without.
Name a job that requires a lot of public speaking.
Name something people might use to make their online passwords.
Name a state whose women are known for their southern charm.
Name a place where a teenage girl might keep her diary.
What chores are you most guilty of putting off until tomorrow.
Name a place where you might keep a spare key.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter "P".
Name something people associate with The Beatles.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "D".
Name a place where you can hide something.
Name something or someone that has fangs.
Name a place where you might see someone cry.
Tell me something you eat every day but know you shouldn't.
Name someone people confess crimes to.
Name something you might see at a circus.
Name a place that smells bad.
Name a food that starts with the letter 'C'.
Name a day that is considered especially bad to break up on.
Name something you might be embarrassed to throw out.
Name something you might buy at a bakery.
Name a reason someone might make fun of a car.
Name a movie people like to watch at Christmas.
Name a time your face might turn red.
Name something that is not all that it is cracked up to be.
Tell me something that might distract you at work.
Name something you might see at a baseball game.
Name someone you might have as an emergency contact.
Name a type of pole.
Name something you can give as a housewarming gift.
Name something you associate with Batman.
Name something you wish you could bring to work.
Name a profession that you would hate your neighbor to have.
Name a place you have to apply to get into.
Name someone famous who you think should not be.
Name a famous American dish.
Name a place where it would be fun to play hide and seek, but where you aren't allowed to.
Name the first place you would go if you owned a private jet.
Name a scent you would not want perfume to smell like.
Name something you like about your job.
Name a tattoo that too many people have.
Where is the last place you would want to spend your weekend?
Tell me something a kid might try to hide from their parents.
Name a game you can play by yourself.
Name something you might do when planning a friend's birthday party.
Name something you love about winter.
Name a famous female pop star.
Name something you might blend.
Name something that might be described as steamy.
Name an actor who has won an Oscar.
Name a famous sidekick.
Name a position that most companies have.
Name a brand you can recognize just from its logo.
Name something you might find in a bathroom.
Tell me something that is always in poor taste to brag about.
Name a country that gets a lot of snow.
Name a food that has an acquired taste.
We asked 100 people: Name your favorite Muppet character.
Name something associated with aliens.
Name someone a kid believes in that an adult doesn't.
Name something you put on in the morning.
Which talk show host is the funniest?
Name something you associate with The Sopranos.
Name something that always gets on your nerves.
Name a job you might hire a kid from the neighborhood to do.
Name something a student might get in trouble for.
Name something besides books that a student might carry in their backpack.
Name something you accumulate through life.
Name a tourist attraction in Rome.
Name a superhero you wouldn't want to pick a fight with.
Name a word or phrase you associate with the word 'hot'.
Name something you might display proudly.
Name something that they DON'T teach at school.
Name something a vampire hates.
Name something that is associated with a knight.
Name something you might see during an award show.
Name something you normally find in a mall.
Tell me something you would not like to see getting on a plane.
Name something you do not want to be caught in the rain without.
Name something that might go wrong on a date.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular fast food restaurant.
Name something on your car that you need to check often.
Name a situation where you might accept a car ride from a stranger.
Name something you forget to turn off.
Name something that is found in a small town diner.
What do you often have nightmares about?
Name a sports movie.
Tell me something your neighbor might do that annoys you.
Name a profession with a bad reputation.
Give me a woman's name that is 3 letters long.
Tell me something you vote for.
Name a kind of place that's known for serving really bad food.
Name something you associate with New York City.
Name an actor who is associated with action roles.
Name another word for 'rare'.
Tell me a word starting with the letter 'S' that describes a used car salesman.
Name a sound that people make involuntarily.
Name a job that might require annual physicals.
Name someone you have to be nice to, even if you don't like them.
Name your favorite Beatles song.
Tell me a type of salesperson that is known for being pushy.
Past or present, name an NFL quarterback.
Name an animal you expect to see at the zoo.
Tell me something you associate with JFK.
Name the most important invention of the 20th century.
Name a celebrity you would like to take a road trip with.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular brand of detergent.
Name a place that might be really dusty.
Name something people say keeps you going.
Name a US city in which you would like to live.
Name something you do not like to do in front of your spouse.
Name an actor who would make a terrible action star.
Name something you pay for once a year.
Name a food you would avoid eating on a date.
Tell me something people file.
Tell me something people renovate in their house.
Name something you might light with a match.
Tell me a place you would NOT like to be stuck.
Name a root vegetable.
Name something that has a shell.
Past or present, name the funniest person on TV.
Name a place you might find your cat hiding.
Name something that is made of glass.
We asked 100 people: Name a famous Canadian.
Name something that is an oldie but goodie.
On any given day what's the most expensive thing you wear?
Name something that bounces.
Give me a slang term for someone who is afraid.
Give me a reason you might be late for work.
Name something of yours that is dirty.
Name something you wish people would do more often.
Name a punk rock band.
Name an animal that lives in the desert.
Name a time or event when you should not joke around.
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter 'B'.
Name a sport with the toughest athletes.
Name something you associate with storms.
Tell me something you might keep under your sink.
Name something people often buy on credit.
Name a personal possession that you might keep on your desk at work.
Name something that was bigger in the 1970s.
Name something your child might do to annoy you.
Name a movie with talking animals.
Name something you might wash in the sink.
Name a reason why it wouuld be fun to live in a big city.
Name an article of clothing you can't wash in the washing machine.
Name an animal you would not like to be compared to.
Name something you associate with leprechauns.
Name a place where you would NOT want to keep your toothbrush.
Name a celebrity you would hate to be stuck next to on a plane.
Name a food that you turn with a spatula.
Name a type of bean.
Name something you might do after you get a bad grade on a test.
Name something people often put on their bucket list.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular television show that is set in space.
Name a tool you might find in a garage.
Name something you eat with a spoon.
Name a comedian who got their start on SNL.
Name a TV show that has judges.
Name a reason a child might throw a tantrum.
Name something an adult might save their money to buy.
Name a place that should never host the Winter Olympics.
Tell me something you would expect to find in a hotel.
Name a job where networking is key.
Name the best U.S. state to raise a family.
If you couldn't be smart, what would you prefer to be?
Tell me something you can do for someone to show them you appreciate them.
Name a famous nursery rhyme.
Name something people plan in advance.
Name something a cowboy might wear.
Give me a woman's name that starts with the letter 'A'.
Name a US city that starts with the letter 'S'.
Name something you would sit on before buying.
Tell me a country that is known for having rude people.
Name a game you might win a lot of money playing.
Name something people rely on too much these days.
Name something you might buy used.
Name an animal you might see on a Christmas card.
Name something people convert their basements into.
Tell me a holiday people wear special colors for.
Name an occupation in which you are 'on duty'.
Tell me something you would trade in for a better one if you could.
Name a U.S. First Lady.
Name something you dress up for.
Name something you might find underneath your couch cushions.
Name a reason why a person might have a big ego.
Name something you always lose on vacation.
Name a game adults might like to play together.
Name something flammable.
Tell me something you associate with Africa.
Name a popular section of a library.
Name a job that might require speaking more than one language.
Tell me a place where you might hide Easter eggs.
Name a place that might have a bell.
If you were in the audience for an Ellen giveaway, what would you hope to get?
Name something that often gets stolen.
Name something you do not learn.
Name a common New Year's resolution.
We asked 100 people: Name something you might buy at a ballpark.
Name something a parent might do if their kid's pet goldfish dies.
Name something you would not want to be caught doing by someone you just started dating.
Name a country that drinks a lot of wine.
Name another word for 'strong'.
Name a way of travelling across snow.
Tell me a form of transportation you wouldn't want to use in a rainstorm.
Name something associated with cars.
Name something associated with Boston.
Name the most famous male singer around today.
Name a famous museum in the U.S.
Name something you might scratch.
Name a living creature that has no legs.
Give me a word that means the opposite of 'friendly'.
Name something you can't wait to do at a party.
Name a drink that quenches your thirst.
Name a reason a mailman might have a bad day on his route.
Name a Hollywood tough guy.
Name something that sticks to walls.
Name something that is associated with the word 'smelly'.
You live to be 100. Name something you hope is still with you.
Name something you might do at a gym.
Tell me a way you reward yourself.
Name a Greek god everyone knows.
Name a sign that your date is not really into you.
Name something people like to save.
Name another word for 'poor'.
Name something a teenage boy might save his money to buy.
Name a famous robot from movies or TV.
Tell me something you buy tickets for.
Tell me a type of business that usually has an ATM inside.
Name a famous bearded man.
Name another word for 'thin'.
Tell me something that people have a hard time remembering.
Name a professional everyone consults sooner or later.
Name something you hate about your job.
Name something that dogs seem to enjoy doing.
Name something you might see when visiting Rome.
Tell me something you think of when you think of India.
Name a country where they speak Spanish.
Name a way to prepare eggs.
Name an industry where a worker's strike would be inconvenient.
Tell me something you might do to get the attention of your crush.
Name a TV animal you wish you could have as a pet.
Name a type of pipe.
Besides people, name something that has been sent into space.
Name a fruit that can fit in your mouth whole.
Name a tool that you would use to build a bird house.
If she really wants to be happy, name an occupation Jannifer Aniston should date, instead of actors.
Name a fruit that would be hard to juggle.
Tell me something you associate with George Washington.
Name something you close.
Name something you would not want to happen on a first date.
Tell me something that would ruin a cruise.
Name a children's story featuring a witch.
We asked 100 people: Name a TV show that lasted more than 5 seasons.
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter "C".
Name a reptile people keep as a pet [No 'lizard', be more specific].
Name something you might do to refresh yourself.
Tell me something people often keep in their attic.
Name a Ben Affleck movie.
Name something that starts with "Bottom of the".
Name a place parents should not be allowed to bring babies.
Name something you'd do if you could get away with it.
Name a reason you might hold your nose.
Name a place where people stand in line.
When you rush out the door for work in the morning, name something you are apt to leave behind.
Name a specific part of a person's body that might be described as "wide".
Name something a kid might think his dad is better at than other dads.
Name something that takes you where you want to go.
Name something that might get ruined if it gets wet.
If a 10-year-old became President, name the first thing he would outlaw.
Name something Tiger Woods has a lot of.
Name an animal you'd never kiss on the lips.
Name a monopoly square you hope to avoid unless you own it.
Name something a boss has to do for herself when her assistant is out for the day.
Name something people overdo at Christmas.
Tell me something people think needs saving.
Name something Jim Carrey is good at making.
Name something people cancel at the last minute.
Name an animal that has a bushy tail.
Name a reason a landlord might evict a tenant.
Name a place that begins with the word "north".
Name an animal that could probably beat Carl Lewis in a race.
Name something you might find in a garage.
Name a country that has a lot of castles.
Name something people put money in.
Name an animal most men must have learned their eating habits from.
Name something Americans spend the most time doing on the weekends.
Name something a dog might have in its mouth.
Name a legendary country music singer.
Name a famous "Cary" (all forms of the name).
Name something that people say they wish would go on forever.
Name something about a male elephant that a female elephant might find attractive.
Name one thing you never skip.
Name a breed of dog that looks like it's wearing hair extensions.
We asked 100 married women: Name something you'd rather do with a female friend than with your husband.
Name something you might consider when buying clothes.
Name an actor who you think is a nice guy in real life.
Name a source of power.
Name something that a dog likes to chase.
Tell me a job most kids dream about having when they're older.
Name a time that might be proudest moment in a person's life.
Name something you might surprise your significant other with.
Name something you associate with Washington D.C.
We asked 100 people: Name something you would find in a hotel.
Tell me why you might avoid swimming in the ocean.
Name someone in your life who usually does more talking than listening.
Name a food that is often cooked in a microwave.
Name an occupation whose members make history.
Name an occupation whose workers might be offered a bribe.
Name something an airline passenger might do if the plane hits a really big bump.
Name a character who is hired to perform at a kid's birthday party.
Name something you wish you had the willpower to do.
Name an animal you might see in the forest.
Name something you think of when you think of Mexico.
Name something that squeaks.
Tell me something people often take for granted.
Name a type of ticket.
Name someone you try to keep your personal problems from.
Name something you wish you'd taken better care of when you were younger.
Name something a police officer probably has with him while he's on duty.
Name a popular men's magazine.
Name something you associate with bones.
Name something neighbors might have a dispute about.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "S".
Name another word for 'heavy'.
Name an activity that you typically do at summer camp.
Name something you try to arrive early for.
Name a place that is usually very loud.
Name a type of large cat.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter 'C'.
Name a meat you fry.
Name a popular cartoon animal.
Name someone you would send a Christmas card to.
Name a US city you would not like to live in.
Name a part of a piano.
Name an activity people do in their backyard.
Name a country that no longer exists.
Name a famous girl group.
Name a U.S. city you would love to live in.
Besides lions, name an animal featured in the movie The Lion King.
Name something you think your partner should pay you for.
Name something you know about Tennessee Williams.
Name something you might use to tell the time.
Name a food that is commonly served as an appetizer.
Name something that is made from milk.
Name a seasoning you might add to a bland food.
Tell me a snack served at a kid's birthday party.
Name a way you can tell if someone has a crush on you.
Name a type of tree.
Name a TV show set in high school.
Fact or fiction, name someone connected with an apple.
Name something you might bring to a dog park.
Name an animal in the bible that is brought up all the time.
Name something you keep in a garden shed.
Name something a kid might be afraid of.
Name something you might put in a box marked fragile.
Name a flower or plant that can also be a woman's name.
Name a famous couple you knew would have problems.
Name something that you move around.
Name a Halloween costume you can make at home for cheap.
Name someone you secretly want to tell off.
Name something you never want to get pierced.
Name a food that stains your teeth.
Name another word for "smell".
Name something that you think is okay to do in public but is frowned upon by other people.
Name something you might see at an airport.
Name a fruit that does NOT grow on a tree.
Name something that scares people.
Name something that has a keyboard.
Name a couples costume for Halloween.
Name a reason you might get sweaty.
Name a rock band from the 1970s.
Name an odor that's so distinct, you know right away what it is.
Name something you would hate to get as a Christmas gift.
Name an annual event that you do not look forward to.
Tell me the worst place to celebrate Valentine's Day.
Name a famous cop from TV or movies.
Name an errand it seems you are always doing.
Name an activity where you need to wear a helmet.
Name a country that has a lot of conflict.
Name something a dog does.
Name something you put on your head.
Name a celebrity you wouldn't want to sit next to on an airplane.
Name a country that would do not well in the Winter Olympics.
Name something a doctor might give you.
Who do you think had the greatest mind in all of history?
Name something you think of when you think of Spain.
We asked 100 people: Name something you might buy at a hockey game.
Name something you might do while stuck in traffic.
We asked 100 people: Name something you might pick off the ground.
Name something teens and their parents might argue about.
Name a celebrity you would like to switch spouses with.
Name something that is hard to find in a city.
What do you call someone who is too careful with money?
Name something that might come between friends.
Name something that might get passed around.
Name something that would ruin a cruise.
Name another word for 'wet'.
Name something you might decorate your work desk with.
Name something you associate with Americans.
Tell me something embarrassing that might happen on a date.
Name something that is associated with Texas.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular Pixar character.
Name a situation when you need to gather courage before taking action.
Name a movie people enjoy watching at Halloween.
Name something commonly associated with Chinese New Year.
Name an occasion where you put on your fanciest clothes.
Name something every student knows how to cook.
Name a famous TV chef.
Name something you are always afraid to check.
Name an animal that only eats plants.
Name something on your car that needs to be checked often.
Name something that people want to do early in life.
Name something you associate with Great Britain.
Give me a word that means the opposite of 'smooth.'
Name something you can't do when it is cold outside.
Name a child star who grew up right.
Name a snack you might keep at your work desk.
Name another word for "hate".
Name a foreign language most Americans can say "Hello" in.
Name a pair of famous brothers.
Name something everyone complains about.
Name an astrological sign.
Name something a childless couple does more than a couple with kids.
Name something a man might have a collection of.
Name a four letter word that's something every woman wants.
Name something that might keep the doctor away.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular film set on a desert island.
Name something you're afraid to do by yourself.
Name a famous person whose first or last name starts with the letter "I".
Name something you wouldn't want your parents catching you doing.
We asked 100 people: Name something you don't want to find in your soup.
Name something you might find in a parent's room.
Name a person who wears gloves.
Name something you associate with kites.
Name a profession starting with the letter 'T'.
Name a tourist attraction in NYC.
Name a profession that people often dislike.
Name something you prepare for but hope never happens.
Name an island nation.
Name a sport that needs ice.
Name someone you should never lie to.
Name something you might bring on a date.
Name someone famous who died young.
Tell me a situation where it is difficult to keep your cool.
Name an award show where celebrities always cry when they win.
Tell me something you might do to help you fall asleep.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter 'K'.
Name an American city people love to vacation in.
Name a famous person whose first or last name starts with the letter "C".
Give me a word that means the opposite of 'dull'.
Name a US state where hockey is popular.
Tell me something you get when you join the army.
Name something you shouldn't photocopy, but do anyway.
Name something kids can do that adults can't.
Name a situation where you would not mind having your flight cancelled.
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter "E".
Name something you put on a pizza.
Name a famous Martin.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "C".
Name something trivial people fight over.
Name the celebrity you would like to have narrate your life story.
Name a food you might eat on a stick.
Name something you might do when you can't sleep.
Name a coffee growing country.
Name something people do when they're annoyed.
We asked 100 people: Name a famous diva.
Name something associated with jazz music.
Name something that people are afraid to step on.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "B".
Name something you might bring to the gym.
Name a farm animal you would not eat.
Name something a doctor might use.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular movie trilogy.
Name something you get into and out of every day.
Name something you might win at a carnival.
Name a movie based on a real life person.
Name something everyone knows about the Vikings.
Name a place where you might have to wait in line.
Tell me something you might do to show someone you love them.
Name a job that Congress does.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "R".
Name something you would like to catch.
Name something you drink for breakfast.
Name something you do not learn at school.
Name one person you would take with you to a desert island.
If a woman eats like a bird, what animal does a man eat like?
Name a place where you can sleep.
Tell me something you associate with Rome.
Name something that has passengers.
Name something teenagers can't live without.
Name an actress who has won an Oscar.
Name a popular fairy tale.
Name a fruit you don't need to peel to eat.
Name another word for 'surprised'.
Name a word or phrase you associate with the word 'driving'.
Name another word for 'far'.
Name a reason you might stand up a date.
What would you NOT like to be doing when the fire alarm goes off?
Name a cartoon you watched as a kid.
Name something you know about Spain.
Name something commonly found in a fairy tale.
Name something you might do when lost.
Name something that makes it difficult to drive.
Name a place where you would not want to be trapped with a stranger.
Name something that leaves a bitter taste in your mouth.
Name something that is dangerous for children to play with.
Name something people might display in their living rooms.
Tell me something you know about Japan.
Name something found outdoors that people might collect.
Name a reason you might give your waiter a good tip.
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter 'D'.
Name something that could be described as fluffy.
Name a tennis player who is known around the world.
Name something you wouldn't want to get in your eye.
Name a country known for beaches.
Name an occupation that might get someone dirty.
Name a way of removing hair.
Name something kids often take for granted.
Name a place that is known for having great food.
Name a celebrity you would not trust with your children.
Tell me something people keep in the attic.
Name a place people like to take a road trip to.
Name somewhere you would move to when you retire.
Tell me something you would take with you if you were forced to evacuate your home.
We asked 100 people: Name the most popular event at the Winter Olympics.
Tell me something you would feel awkward purchasing in front of your grandmother.
Name a place where people hide things.
Name a type of list.
Name something associated with hippies.
Name the worst part of Halloween.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter "V".
Name something you would not want to stick your nose into.
Name a member of the British Royal Family.
Name a James Bond theme.
Name something parents do when their kids are away at summer camp.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular Christmas movie.
Name a Hollywood bad boy.
Name a spice used in cooking.
Name a French word everybody knows.
Name a contact sport.
Name a kind of donut filling.
Name a food that is messy to eat.
Name the first thing you buy at the grocery store.
Name a place you can go without shoes and a shirt and still get serviced.
Name something that a child might save their money to buy.
Name something your spouse might do that ticks you off.
Name something you associate with the Rat Pack.
Name something that might be described as life changing.
Give me a nickname for a skinny person.
Name a type of bird that you wouldn't want to eat.
Name a place where you expect to find people singing.
Name something of yours that's black.
Name a job that requires a lot of communication.
Name something a kid might practice kissing on.
Name something you refill.
Name something you associate with the Midwest.
Which cartoon character would you least like to have as a neighbor?
Name something you buy that you expect to last several years.
Name something you associate with volcanoes.
Name something you can write.
Name a job you might have on a ship.
Tell me something you might do after a bad break-up.
Name somewhere children love going that adults don't.
Name a place you would go to get a good view.
Name a sport that is not part of the Summer Olympics, but should be.
Name a fruit that squirts.
Name the person you would most like to be stranded with.
Give me a male celebrity who's a good role model.
Give me a reason for moving away from your home town.
Name a U.S. state that gets a lot of rain.
Name a way a rich person might lose all his money.
Give me a word or phrase that means you lost your job.
Name something in the office that breaks down often.
Name something you might see at Hogwarts.
Name something you shake before using.
Name a legendary baseball player.
Name something you might find in a bedroom.
Name a beloved cartoon character from your childhood.
Name a word that starts with the letter "Z".
What do you look for in a job other than salary?
What U.S. President once worked as a male model?
Tell me something a husband is afraid to admit to his spouse.
Name a sport where people wear shorts.
Name something associated with China.
Tell me something you do before you go to bed.
Name a celebrity that you would not want to have over for dinner.
If the socks that you are wearing could talk, what would they say to you?
Before the Euro, name any European currency.
Name a reason why you might put up signs around the neighborhood.
Tell me something that is described as precious.
Besides making phone calls, tell me something you use your phone for.
Tell me something you dislike about summer.
Tell me an occasion for throwing a party.
Name something you think of when you think of China.
Name someone you might offer a ride to.
Name something you are afraid to ask your partner to do.
Name something you expect to see in Paris.
Name a literary device.
Name a famous southern dish.
Name a sport that can be played by one person.
Name a word meaning opposite of "athletic".
Name another word for empty.
Name something that breaks easily.
Tell me something you would hate to be on when it breaks down.
Name a child star who grew up too fast.
Name a country known for their soccer skills.
Tell me something that is never there when you need it?
Name a Disney movie that does not have a female villain.
We asked 100 people: Name something people are afraid of.
Name a game kids might play in the car.
Name something you fill with water.
Name something the lawn mower might accidentally roll over.
Name something a teenager will not leave the house without.
Name something tropical.
Give me a woman's name that starts with the letter "D".
Tell me something people often break.
Tell me something you think of when you think of Ireland.
Name something a person might do after winning the lottery.
Name something people drink that's red.
Name an exotic animal you would like to eat.
Name something you might build around the house.
Tell me a reason why you might not go out.
Name something you might accidentally leave on a bus.
Name something that comes in a spray can.
Name a sport whose athletes leap with the grace of ballet dancers.
Name a word that rhymes with 'horn'.
Name a sign that your date isn't into you.
Name a game that is played at a family reunion.
Name a Leonardo DiCaprio movie.
Name something people wear too much of.
Give me a reason why friends might have a falling out.
Name something you might see in a hospital.
Name something green.
Name an animal you might see at Seaworld.
Name something you do in front of a mirror you wouldn't want anyone to see.
We asked 100 women: Name an actor who should definitely leave his body to science.
Name a situation where you show your driver's license.
Name something some people might swipe from the neighbors.
Past or present, name a famous vampire.
Name something that people think is lucky.
Name something you never forget hot to do.
If your socks could talk, what would they say to you.
Name a reason a person might wear a hat.
Name something people do when they are happy.
Name a US state that starts with the letter M.
Name something that you rent.
Name something you associate with Canada.
Name something that a parent might disapprove of in their child's significant other.
Name something that slows down line at a fast food restaurant.
Name a place where you would not want to break something. (be more specific than store)
Real or fictional, name a famous 'Charles'.
Name a musical instrument you'd never find in an orchestra.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter 'S'.
Name something you associate with sleeping.
Name another word for 'happy'.
Name a game people play on their cell phone.
Name something you would never want someone to see you wearing.
Name another word for 'fun'.
Name a celebrity who is a bad role model.
Name a popular German word.
Name a place a student might go on a field trip.
Name a kind of place whose employees should stay home if they're sick.
Name a job that involved secrecy.
Name something you might wear a pair of.
Name a liquid that is put into cars.
Name a holiday that is not celebrated in the United States.
Name something in your house that children are not allowed to touch.
Name something you have less of with age.
What would you not like to be doing when the fire alarm goes off.
Name another word for liar.
Name something you buy a ticket for.
Name a fitness expert.
Name a famous female singer today.
Name a beast of burden.
Name a place you're likely to see a deck.
Name the sexiest actor working today.
Name the most important person in American history.
Name something you should stop eating if you want to lose weight.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter "B".
Name something you might go to on the 4th of July.
Name a famous person whose first or last name starts with the letter "Q".
Tell me something you wish you could do over again.
What do you call someone who scared easily?
Name a city that is often featured in spy movies.
Name an animal you would never try to wrestle.
Tell me a pet that might live longer than its owner.
Name something Barbie and Britney have in common.
Name something you drink out of the bottle.
Name a word or phrase you associate with the word 'long'.
Name a word that rhymes with 'zoo'.
Name something you do when waiting for a flight.
Name a situation where you would use a map.
Name a place you would not want your spouse to find you.
Name countries found in the Middle East.
Name something you put on a sandwich.
Name a part of the body that starts with the letter "S".
Name something that might cause a relationship to fail.
Name something that travels at high speed.
Based on how much you use it, what do you consider the greatest invention ever?
We asked 100 people: Name a movie that takes place in a post-apocalyptic world.
Name a profession someone should avoid if they're bad at math.
Tell me something that will still be around if humans were to go extinct.
Name a reason parents might send their child to bed early.
Name something a man pretends to like to impress a crush.
Name something you wipe.
Name something people stop doing when they become adults.
Name something a plumber might have.
Name a hobby a retiree might have.
Name a famous woman in history.
Name a character from the Star Trek universe.
Tell me a food that tastes better deep fried.
Name a popular salad dressing.
Name something that can be smoked.
Name a part of your body where you hate being tickled.
Name a food that's high in cholesterol.
You're in your car and think you are being followed. Where would you go?
Name something that might make you nervous.
Name an event in Olympic gymnastics.
Name something you would not want to happen while stuck in traffic.
Name something you need to build a house.
Name something people lose that they replace quickly.
We asked 100 women: What's your favorite part of your body?
Name something a gladiator might take into battle.
Name something you might turn down.
Name a drink you get at a cafe that most people can't make at home.
Name a place where you might find sand.
Name a famous college that looks impressive on someone's resume.
Name something kids play in gym class.
Name a place you would hate to get a phone call.
Name an animal you wouldn't want to hug.
Name something people do for luck.
Give me an animal that begins with the letter "D".
Name something that might give you road rage.
If a person didn't trust the banks, where might they put their money?
Name something people bring to a wedding.
Name someone who might use a megaphone.
Name something you put milk in.
Name something you buy that would be hard to return.
Name a fruit that could be fatal if you tried to swallow it whole.
Give me a DIY project that you might take up in your house.
Name a brand of women's perfume.
Name something people get nostalgic about.
Name something people cut.
Name something you associate with the city of Chicago.
Name something you might see at a carnival.
Name something people do on a nice day.
Name a word a director thinks about that starts with the letter "C".
Name something people put in their front yard.
Name something you might only wear on special occasions.
Name something you might find in a park.
Name something you might find in a closet.
Name a part of the body that moves a lot.
Name something that comes in an aerosol can?
What might your cell phone say to you if it could talk?
Real or fictional, name someone known for their wisdom.
Name a reason someone might have a garage sale.
Name a TV show you think ended too soon.
Name something people like to take pictures of.
Name something you look for in a potential spouse.
Name a gift that a guest might bring to dinner.
Name parts of a bicycle.
Name a reason why you might close your eyes.
Name a sign that a couple is really in love.
Name a place you would not describe as romantic.
Name another word for surprised.
Name something you think of when you think of France.
Name something you might grow in your garden.
Name something you find in a court room.
Name someone who is famous for helping people.
Give me an extreme sport you would never attempt.
What is hell to you?
Tell me something you would NOT like to get as an anniversary gift from your spouse.
Give me a woman's name that starts with the letter 'D'.
Name an actor who makes big box office hits.
Name a profession that might be considered dangerous.
Name something you would find in a tool box.
Name something every child wants for Christmas.
Tell me a place a child might be nervous about going to.
Name another word for 'empty'.
Name something that moves very slowly.
Name a place you would never go on a date.
Name something that might put a kid on Santa's naughty list.
Name a place that is associated with skiing.
Name a situation in which you might get up to cook someone breakfast.
Name something that flies.
Name an Oscar award category everybody watches.
Name something specific that parents might encourage their kids to pursue.
Name something you expect to find in the jungle.
Name something you associate with Russia.
Name a city that is known for bad traffic.
Name something that has a screen.
Give me a man's name that starts with the letter "R".
Name a country in Asia.
Name something that people frequently trip over.
Tell me something you would hate to see in a restaurant.
Name something you never leave the house without.
Name something people like to receive in the mail.
Name a country that has a massive population.
If someone left 12 million dollars to a dog, what would the dog buy with it?
Name something you hate about your morning commute.
Name a dance that is no longer hip.
Name something that grows back.
Name a job you need a lot of training for.
Tell me something a person could have that makes you not want to kiss them.
Name a celebrity you wish you could have dinner with.
Name an instrument least likely to get a band member groupies.
Name another term for marijuana.
Name someone you leave a tip for.
Name a country that begins with the letter "H".
Name a London tourist attraction.
Name something you do while you soak in the bathtub.
Name something that might wash up on a beach.
Name something the wealthy have.
Name something people store in a cupboard.
Name a famous news anchor.
Name something about getting older you look forward to.
Name an American sweetheart.
What's the worst apest of flying?
Which U.S. President gave the best speeches?
Name something Santa Claus has to look out for when he's flying in his sleigh.
Name a baseball player known for hitting home runs.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "A".
Name an action star who is proably too old to be making action movies.
Name something you might find in a fish tank.
We asked 100 people: Name something you might buy at a dollar store.
Name a kind of pet you had during your childhood.
Name something specific someone might do to get them a parking ticket.
Name something that makes a house smell great.
Name something you eat that comes in a shell.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular dog breed.
Name a place where you would find a vending machine.
Name something you have no control over.
Name another word for 'fat'.
Name something you hate to be 'out of order'.
Name something that needs to be kepe in the fridge.
Name a food you can deep fry.
Name a job that is physically demanding.
Name a hockey team that has a huge following.
Name something that comes in a box.
Name a former British colony that is not The United States of America.
Name something great about being an adult.
Name something people put behind their ears.
Name something you might find at an airport.
We asked 100 people: Name a batman villain.
Name something you wear on your hands.
Name an animal that is mentioned in the bible.
If your cat had an answering machine, tell me something the message might say he's busy doing.
Name something that comes in an aerosol can.
Name a famous female heroine.
Husbands and wives share many things. What is something that a husband and wife should never share.
Name a man who has inspired you.
Tell something you know about Romeo and Juliet.
Tell me a lullaby that always works on babies.
Name something you buy by the roll.
Name a city that has hosted the Winter Olympic Games.
Name a food that does not go well with kissing.
Name an outspoken TV news anchor.
Name someone who is famous for having a big mouth.
Name something you can buy in Monopoly.
Name a band associated with the 1980s.
Name something you take into the shower.
Name a famous "Dan" or "Danny".
Name something people applaud for.
Name something a telemarketer tries to sell you.
Name something that is useless.
Name a sport with the wimpiest athletes.
Name a kind of animal you might see in a swamp.
Name a country kids study in ancient history class.
Name a real or fictional band that has a food in their name.
Name an actor you might see at the circus.
Name a popular kids TV show.
Name something a good relationship has.
Name something you might see at a 4th of July party.
Give me a word that means the opposite of "serious".
Name something you would hate to lose.
Name something a parent might tell their child not to put in their mouth.
Name a band associated with the 1990s.
Name a situation where it is OK to throw food.
Name a red vegetable.
Name something Switzerland is famous for.
Name a vegetable that is not green.
Name an occupation in which a man can put his good looks to use.
Name something a lifeguard can do that someone with an office job can't.
Name a wood that'd used for making furniture.
Name a job that pays well.
Name the most romantic place to get married.
Name a cereal kids love to eat.
Tell me a reason why you would give a bad tip.
Name another word for 'rich'.
Name a board game that causes arguments.
Name something you associate with the southern US.
Name something you would like to have named after you.
Name a way people pass time at an airport.
Name something (OTHER THAN FOOD) that people will buy, even if it is tripled in price.
Name a place kids might go if they skipped school.
Name a reason your flight might be cancelled.
Name something that could ruin a picnic.
Name something you might budget for.
Tell me something people say they're on.
Name something that might be recorded.
Name something you can be allergic to.
Name a staple of a college student's diet.
Name a situation where you might need to wear ear plugs.
Name something you might hit a ball with.
Name a food that is easy to eat while driving.
Tell me something you might to win over your in-laws.
Name something you hate cleaning.
Name something a small child would do as a chore.
What might a man keep in his wallet?
Give me another word for "poor".
Name a junk item lying around in your house.
Name something you can do during a power outage.
Tell me something you would NOT want to hear from the person you have a crush on.
Name a place where you would not want to get a flat tire.
Name something kids believe in that adults don't.
Name a strong female public figure.
Name something you think of when you think of Japan.
Name a profession that requires a specific degree.
Name something you might wear to a job interview.
Name something kids might throw at each other.
Name an animal that you would not like to meet in the wild.
We asked 100 people: Name a popular soda flavor.
Tell me something you would avoid when camping in the woods.
Name a celebrity that has their own line of perfume.
Name something birds have that humans don't.
Name something that reminds you of winter.
Name something people might bring to a gym.
Name a job that doesn't allow you to be very creative.
Name a popular soap opera.
Name a clever animal.
Besides the US, name a country that produces a lot of movies.
Name a German word everybody knows.
Tell me something you associate with Australia.
Name something you leave to chance.
Name a country where it's hot all year round.
Name something you do to pass the time at work.
Name something you wouldn't like to receive as a birthday gift.
Name an exercise highschool gym teachers make you do.
Name a food that starts with the letter "H".
Name a part of your body that has three letters.
We asked 100 people: Name a DC Comics superhero.
Tell me something you do NOT want to see in your food.
Tell me something that might happen on a date.
Name an actor or actress who is politically outspoken.
Name something on the highway that doesn't move.
Name something you might eat at a seafood restaurant.
Name something you might carry on your back.
Name something you should not take on your honeymoon.
Name something you associate with California.
Name a famous redhead.
Tell me a celebrity a teenage girl might have a crush on.
Name something people might do when they retire.
Name an occupation that starts with the letter "L".
Name a trait you would need to have if you wanted to be an NFL player.
Name something that might happen during a job interview that would cause you not to get the job.
Name a US city or state that has seen been better days.
Name a movie about magic.
Name something you might do for your mom on Mother's Day.
Name a specific reason why you might visit a fortune teller.
Name another word for 'friend'.
Name something that is blue.
Name something people keep in the basement.
Name something you might do to prepare for the first day of school.
Name a job you would never want to have.
Name a long running reality TV series.
Name your favorite character on Modern Family.
Give me a word that means the opposite of 'easy'.
Name something you might learn how to make in shop class.
Name something you might keep a secret stash of.
Name a place a cheap boss throws the office Christmas party.
Name something that might make a bad first impression.
Name something you would trade for fame and fortune.
Name a movie about robots.
Name somewhere where you have to line up.
Name something you would not wear to a funeral.
We asked 100 people: Name a mountain range.
Name something that is not heavy but still hard to carry.
Name a professional athlete who has also starred in a movie.
Name a reason why Mrs. Clause might have stayed with Santa Clause all these years.
Name a business that looks forward to Valentine's Day.
Name a reason a person might not be hired for a job.
Tell me something you associate with Canada Day.
Name something that is really hard to clean up.
Name something you associate with Frank Sinatra.
Name something you would hate to happen at your wedding.
Name something that a guy who's competitive hates to lose.
Name a reason you might have to leave work early.
Real or fictional, name something you would want with you in an emergency.
Name something you associate with Ancient Greece.
Name something you associate with punk music.
Name another word for 'slow'.
Name something that you need gloves to handle.
Name something people drink that is red.
Name something that when you get it means nothing, but when you don't you get angry.
Give me a movie that was based on a book.
Name something that makes your breath smell bad.
Name a word children often mispronounce.
Name a North American city you would not like to drive in.
Tell me something that is never there when you need it.
Name an animal that you could outrun.
Name something you would hate to find in your cellar.
Name a musical instrument with a mournful sound.
Name something you might see in the Amazon (Aminal is not an answer, be specific).
Name something you associate with rowing.
Name something that seems to make babies very happy.
Name an animal that mates for life.
When you're on a bad blind date, name something you wish you could be doing instead.
Name something kids are always saying that they are old enough to start doing for themselves.
Name something annoying at the library.
Name a U.S. city that starts with the letter "D".
We asked 100 women: Name something you'd hate to fall out of.
Name something you might have to get down from your roof.
Name a United States President who you think could have won on "Survivor".
Tell me something you stand around and wait for because someone else is using it.
What occupation do you think requires nerves of steel?
Name an occupation that you think is underpaid.
Name a former president you wish were around to get America out of the mess it's in.
Name another word for "stink".
Name something people have a personal code for.
Name something about Shaquille O'neal that's huge?
Name a celebrity Britney should follow around to be a good mother.
Most animals walk on all fours. Name an animal that doesn't.
Name something you would like to see when traveling through Europe.
Name something your passport reveals about you.
Name something you could buy for a dollar.
Name something you might see at a yard sale.
Name a favorite game from your childhood.
Name something you'd put in an ad when selling your house.
Give me an expression that uses the word "dog".
Name a TV show that's a clone of American Idol.
Name something you drink out of a bottle.
Name a gift from their husbands that wives have to sometimes pretend to like.
Name a sport that shouldn't be played in high school.
Name someone whose ideas made this world a better place.
Name a famous soccer player.
Name the most fun city in the U.S.
Name something people do at the movies.
Name a way people listened to music before iPods.
Name a country in Africa.
Name something you might give as a wedding gift.
Tell me a celebrity you would hate to sit next to on a long flight.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "P".
Name something made of rubber.
Name something America is known for.
Name a place that has a lot of exits.
Name something you see on day-time TV.
Name something you might take mountain climbing.
Name a way a man might try to make himself look younger.
Give me a man's name that starts with the letter "Y".
Tell me something you would like to change about your partner.
Name something that has an ending.
Name something some people seem to need more of than other people do.
Name a job a teenager might have.
Name something people might mix.
Name a famous coffee chain.
Name something kids practice doing in their rooms.
Name something you might find in a woman's handbag.
Name something people often take for granted.
Name something you would not want to find under a Christmas tree.
Name something you would hate to happen at a BBQ.
Name something you would not like to receive in the mail.
Name something Canada is famous for.
Name something you might catch in a net.
Name another word for 'love'.
Name an inappropriate gift for your boss.
Name a way people traveled before cars.
Name something a boy scout might learn.
Name someone who cheers you up.
Name an animal with four letters in its name.
Name something people do when they are nervous.
Name a job that is underappreciated.
Name something you might see in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.
Name a specific place associated with skiing.
Tell me a game that kids might play at recess.
Name something people have no control over.
Name a food you rarely cook at home.
Name something people own to make their lives easier.
Name a famous videogame character.
Name a word that rhymes with 'leek'.
Name a hobby people often have.
Name a famous person whose first or last name starts with the letter "D".
Name something you put on a bed.
Name something on a highway that does not move.
Tell me something that you shouldn't reveal on a first date.
Name something you see people do on the subway.
Name something that hatches.
Name something a mom shouldn't still have to do for her grown-up son.
Name a place that should never host the Summer Olympics.
Name something you would not like to get while trick or treating.
Fact or fiction, name a famous spaceship.
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter 'G'.
Tell me something you might want to make disappear.
Name something that might cause your car not to start.
Name a famous Jewish actor.
Name a singer who is known by their first name.
Since there are no photo booths, name someplace Clark Kent now goes to change into superman.
Name something you think of when you hear the word "Choppers".
Name an occupation of someone who might ask you to lie down.
What do you think would be the first word, or words, spoken by Donald Trump's little son.
Name a kind of league people join.
Name something people call the police to report.
Name something people break off.
Name a famous "Douglas".
Name something you might find on the menu at a barbecue restaurant.
Tell me a famous person named Jackie.
Name something that's kept in a "tank".
What do you think of when you hear the word, "Bond"?
Name another word for "stop".
Name a reason why you choose one job over another.
Name a famous bridge, often pictured on postcards.
Where were you the last time someone tried to cut in front of you in line?
Name a kind of place where you run into the rudest people.
Name something you crave on a daily basis.
Name a reason a customer might choose one gas station over another.
Name a movie where Clint Eastwood was either a cowboy or a cop.
Which occupation in America deserves to earn the most money?
Name an occupation that requires a lot of travel.
Tell me one thing people associate with Pilgrims.
Name a word you'd use to describe your mattress that could also describe someone's body.
Daytime or nighttime, who is the best-dressed talk show host?
Name a famous Ricky.
Name something you do when you see a mouse in the house.
Name something people do to avoid traffic.
Name something that's described as "smoky".
Name something that begins with the word "hand".
Name something people put in iced tea.
Name something specific that a lot of country western songs are about.
Name something you hang onto for dear life.
We asked 100 women: Using the theory that men are dogs, what breed are you most attracted to?
Name a kind of fish that would be impossible to swallow whole.
Of all the things invented by man, what do you think causes the most stress?
Name something you do for your dog's own good, that he hates.
Name something made in America that's loved by people worldwide.
Name something a man might love even more than women.
Complete this phrase: Bald as a(n)______.
Name an activity that's hard to do when you have a stiff neck.
Name something a doctor does that a patient has to remain still for.
Name something in the home that every member of the family probably uses.
Tell me something a kid might lie about.
Name a kind of place where you often have to wait to be waited on.
Tell me something that's kept in a "tank".
Name something that you now wish had been forced to do as a child.
Name something that sways back and forth.
Name something the Invisible Man might put on to become visible.
Name something in the bathroom that husbands and wives have separate ones of.
Name a country that starts with the letter "I".
Which country do you think has the safest drivers.
Name a product in your bathroom that is often replaced.
If you were given a million dollars today, tell me the first thing you'd buy.
Poor people worry about money. What do rich people worry about?
Name something a man spends more money on when he's in a relationship.
Name something you cannot be afraid of it you hope to become an astronaut.
Name a professional sports team in New York.
Besides food, name something you might find in a picnic basket.
Name something people know about the city of Paris.
Name something that could ruin a whale-watching trip.
Name A Word That They Use At A Sporting Event Thats Also Used On Family Feud?
On Family Feud, Name Something The Host Asks Players About
What Do Family Feud Contestants Do After Their Relative Has Given A Bad Answer
Name something that annoys you at movie theaters.
Name a place where you see a lot of phony smiles.
Name an occupation whose members must get used to taking a lot of criticism.
Name an athlete who has won a Heisman trophy.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "egg".
Name something kids and their parents usually don't share the same taste in.
Name something people put on during the course of a day.
Name a kind of place where you sit waiting for your name to be called.
Name something you might find in a person's shopping cart if they're planning on a romantic dinner.
Name something kids are told to take turns using.
Tell me how many cups of coffee it takes to give you the jitters.
Name a place people work that starts with the letter "M".
Name a kind of place where it's easy to catch other people's germs.
We asked 100 women: What would you do if your guy gave you a necklace that was ugly?
Name a measurement people know on their body.
We asked 100 women: Name something you've spent a fortune on in order to look beautiful.
Dogs chase cats. What do cats chase?
Name a country that begins with the letter "G".
Name a reason you might pull over to the shoulder of the road on a long drive.
Tell me someplace where a fight might break out.
We asked 100 men: Name something men think they know more about than women.
Name something that starts with "Under my".
Besides pirates, name something you might find on an old pirate ship.
Name someone you see on a regular basis who charges too much.
Name something a woman does to prevent her date from kissing her.
Name a place you go where you must show your ID.
Tell me a special request people make when booking an airline flight.
Besides money, name something you wish you had more of.
Name something that seems to fall apart about the time you pay it off.
Name someone you know better than to interrupt when they're talking to you.
Name something a store sells a lot of at Halloween.
Name an occupation in which a man wears an apron.
If you spent Christmas alone, name a traditional you might not bother with.
Name something you should get rid of when it stops working.
Tell me something about Cupid.
In what U.S. city do you find the greatest number of brilliant scientists?
What's something people do in their cars while driving that you think is crazy?
Name a strong woman who scares men.
Name something dogs do that cats probably think is really stupid.
Name something other countries think the United States has too much of.
Name a form of transportation that makes very little noise.
Name something a farmer might be embarrassed to say he doesn't know how to do.
Name something people lose as they get older.
Name something you wish airports had for when you're stuck on a long layover.
Name something a person might fall out of.
Besides babies, tell me someone or something whom you baby-talk to.
Name something people hate to find in their house.
Name a way people spoil their dogs.
Real or fictional, name a famous "Paul".
Name an occupation that has a lot of "quacks".
In which American city is it most expensive to eat dinner?
Name something that's good when it's dry.
Name something a boss has that the worker might envy.
Of all the talk shows on the air, which is the worst?
Give me another word for "sloppy".
Name something parents tell their kids not to do so loudly.
Name something some parents have that makes other parents jealous.
Name a souvenir people buy at Disneyland.
Name something that children say is always better at the neighbor's house.
Name something high school students have nightmares about.
Name an athlete who's got a bad attitude.
Name a slang term for someone who informs on a friend.
Name something that might have a knot in it.
Name an occupation where it's important to have clean hands.
What's the best source to get the current news?
Name something that you might see someone run after.
Name something little kids can do for hours on end.
Besides asking for a raise, tell us something else people ask their bosses for.
Name an occupation that could never be replaced by a machine.
Name something you hope is clean when company drops in unexpectedly.
Name something a doctor might give you that you don't really want.
Name something a burglar might see that stops him from breaking into a house.
Name something you sniff before buying.
Tell me an animal that high school teams are often named after.
Name something a young child takes with him when he runs away from home.
If you were living in a foreign country, name something you'd do to show your patriotism.
Name something you have more of now than you did 10 years ago.
Name something Holland is famous for.
Name a type of gymnastics move every kid knows how to do.
We asked 100 women: Name an animal which best describes your last blind date.
Name something that a nurse asks you to do before the doctor comes in to examine you.
Name a part of a car you open and close.
Name an activity during which you get bored and sleepy.
Name something of yours a neighbor might want to borrow.
Name someplace in the house where people hide their money.
We asked 100 women: Name something the man of your dreams has.
Name something a divorced couple literally cannot cut in half.
Tell me an excuse people give for showing up late.
Besides watching the movie, name something people do in a movie theatre.
Tell me something that Tom Cruise has been known to jump on.
Name a kind of suit you would not wear to the office.
Name something in your office that's covered in germs.
Name something Oprah has that starts with the letter "M".
Name a problem people have when they're barbecuing.
Name something that starts with "Knock 'em...".
Tell me a famous woman named Jennifer.
Name something most people only have one of.
Name a way you might be able to tell someone is a tourist.
Name an occasion when a woman might be especially nervous and excited
Name a part of the body that twitches.
Name something that might unexpectedly fly open.
The politician who wins the election is usually the person with the most what?
Name a part of your body that never stops growing.
Name something that might take blood from you.
Name a bird that's listed in The 12 Days of Christmas.
Tell me something some people have a hard time closing.
Name something about Shaquille O'Neal that's huge.
Name a kind of notice you get in the mail that has you saying, "oh no".
For whom do you most enjoy shopping?
Name a famous person whose first or last name starts with the letter "O".
Name an occupation in which you have to put up with a lot from other people.
Name something that might make a person decide to retire.
Past or present, what boxer would you most hate to step into the ring with?
Name something a couple must choose when they find out they're going to have a baby.
Name one of the super villains from a superhero movie.
Name a fruit that is used to describe a woman's body or part of it.
Name a quality that makes a person a good family doctor.
Name something that might come out early.
Name a type of cheese Americans like the best.
Name something you always see in Western movies.
Name something you check if you're last one to leave the office at night.
Name someone who wears a badge.
Name a famous person who died in a plane crash.
Name a famous person whose last name is Lee.
Name something that beginning drivers frequently forget to do.
Name a tool Geppetto might use to give Pinocchio a nose job.
Name someone who comes to mind when you hear the phrase: "loudmouth".
Name something you might purchase by the gallon.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "spring".
What's the one worst aspect of flying on a plane?
Fill in the blank: Whoever said money can't buy happiness never owned a _____.
If your body could be fixed as easily as the body of a car, name a new part you'd want.
When you're driving to work, name a place you wish you were going instead.
Name something you might watch through binoculars.
When money is tight, name something families postpone doing.
Name something you do while your friend drives.
What's the best man responsible for at a wedding?
What does a lazy person spend most of their time doing at work?
Name something a woman wears at work she'd take off when she gets home.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "coffee".
We asked 100 women: What occasion always causes you to put on a few pounds?
Name one of the disadvantages of driving an SUV.
Tell me what most people hate.
Name something that might be stuffed inside a ra
Name a reason people might wish you good luck.
Name a type of TV program people watch in the afternoon.
Name something in your house that's extra dirty after a big party.
Name a type of repairman whom you suspect is out to cheat you.
Name something in your life you wish you had more control over.
Name something men need courage to do.
Name something a woman might get more of just because she's incredibly good looking.
Name something you don't want to run over with a vacuum.
We asked 100 married men: If you became king of the house, what chore would you say was beneath you?
Name another word besides "money" that means the same thing.
Name a sport that does not contain the word "ball".
Name something you might see if you were in the Amazon forest.
At what age does a child first stay home alone?
Name a good excuse to get your date to come inside at the end of the night.
Name someone who works outdoors.
Name a command people give their dogs that they might wish they could give to their teenagers.
Name something that people are said to "bask in."
Name something people say when they click glasses to toast.
Name something show-offs show off.
Which airline employee probably has the most exciting work stories?
We asked 100 couples: What do you do when you and your partner get into an argument in a public place?
Name something you wash in a sink.
At What Age Does It Become Embarrassing To Still Live With Your Parents (Numeric Only)?
Name a sport that doesn't include a ball.
How many hours does it take to drive across your state?
Name a short phrase that begins with "hang."
Name something people do to a live mouse that would be strange to do to your computer's mouse.
Name a beverage you drink to cool off.
Tell me something you might skip doing if you're running late for work.
Name something you'd find in a haunted house.
Since first daughter Malia Obama has allergies, what would be a good breed of dog for her to get?
Name a decision that children think they should be able to make for themselves.
Name a holiday when you prefer to stay home rather than fight the crowds.
We asked 100 women: Name a bad habit you think most men are born with.
Name a job that requires you to risk your life.
Tell me someone who always seems to be present whenever you make a fool out of yourself.
Name something on your plane you hope is working.
Name something people do when they know a hurricane is coming.
Name something people celebrate paying off.
Name something you associate with skating.
When you move to a new city, name something that you have to fine a new one of.
Name something you use for company when you're home alone.
Name a word or phrase that starts with the word "baby".
Motor-Mouth is a one word of expression that ends in "mouth". Name another.
Name something you associate with British people.
Name a kind of place where people pretend to be paying attention.
Name something women like to take more time doing than men do.
If you wanted to simplify your life, name something you'd give up.
Tell me something that makes people thirsty.
If all the talk show hosts were at a dinner party, who would monopolize the conversation?
Name a job that makes men wear tights.
Name something a woman might lie about while being interviewed for a job.
What's the first thing you look for when you buy a house?
Name something that a really lazy guy would stick in the dishwasher to clean.
Name a food that can put a smile on your face and five extra pounds on your scale.
What would you say is the biggest expense in a very large family?
Name a field in which many of America's richest people have made their fortunes.
Past or present, name a woman famous for being well-dressed.
Name something a woman sees and thinks, "I Gotta Have It".
Name something that might give you a jolt.
Name something Florida is famous for.
Name a kind of creature that becomes giant-sized in sci-fi movies.
Name something people hate about public restrooms.
Name a famous Dolly.
Name something that begins with "The Real".
Name something horses have that people don't.
Name a place where people hope to go someday.
Name a skinny breed of dog.
Name an occasion when you're forced to pose for a family photo.
Name something you have to go back to get if you leave home without it.
When Sitting Close To A Date, What Clue Might They Give That They Like You
Name Something You Try To Avoid Hitting While Sledding Down A Hill
What Do You Do To Help Out The Less Fortunate At The Holidays?
Name a Type Of Document That You Might File And Save For Years
Name Something Kids Must Be Forced To Do, But Adults Love Doing
If Your Date Is Paying For The Meal, Name Something You Shouldnt Do
Name A Type Of Poster A 13-Year-Old Boy Might Have On His Wall.
Name A Place Where Only A Person With No Conscience Would Smoke
Other Than School, Name A Place Where You Find Lockers
Name a reason you might suspect a Little Leaguer is more than 12 years old.
Name something you think some people let grow way too long.
Name something about Santa that kids wouldn't dare to make fun of.
Name a specific animal you think of when you're with a bunch of party animals.
For what occasion in your life were you most nervous?
Name the first thing you would replace if you came into some money.
Give me one of the 10 commandments.
Name a famous Chuck.
Name a slang term for someone who grows up in a backwoods town.
We asked 100 married men: Name something you enjoy your wife doing for you even though professionals could do it better.
Name something that you have only one of, but sometimes you wish you had more than one.
Name a height when men consider a woman tall.
Name a person who's famous for having funny-looking hair.
Name a type of business where you might drop something off and pick it up later.
Give me another name for "tattletale".
Name something a witch would have to ride if her broom was broken.
Past or present, name a rock n'roll superstar.
Name something that's a lot more expensive this year than it was last year.
Name a kind of race that is hard to predict.
Past or present, name a TV show about a very wealthy family.
Name a slang word for "Stomach".
Which U.S. city has the most residents born outside the USA?
Name something you hate getting in your mailbox.
Name something specific babysitters do that irritates parents.
Name something some men just can't stand a woman being better at then they are.
Name a country that ends with "land".
When a man buys flowers for a woman, name a reason why he might choose one kind over another.
Name a place perfect strangers sit next to each other.
Name something that makes people tremble.
Name a type of food that might get caught on a man's moustache.
Name a loud noise you might hear coming from your rude neighbor's house.
Which comedian has made the most money this year?
Name something that begins with "March of _____".
What would a parent most want to see his child spend the afternoon doing?
Name one word that never fails to start a dog's tail wagging.
Name a famous "rabbit".
Name something the city of Atlanta is known for.
Name the busiest month of the year for a hotel.
Name something you do while your friends drives.
Name something you'd find in a ring.
What would you do if your spouse packed on 50 pounds?
Name something that both infants and adults find soothing.
Name something whose cost could bankrupt the average American family.
Name someone from the sixties who appears in high school history books.
Name a subject Regis and Kelly spend every day yakking about.
If your shirt accidentally caught on fire, what would be the best thing to do?
Name a movie or TV show that was set in outer space.
When you get out of bed in the middle of the night, name something it's easy to trip over.
Name something you hit if it doesn't work right.
Name someone you wish you could dance like.
Name a mistake that little children make when getting dressed.
Name the biggest challenge of being married.
Without seeing the cat, name a way you can tell a person owns a cat just by looking around their house.
Give me a phrase that begins with the word "cut".
Name something that many married men and women run out of.
Fill in the blank: City of _____.
We asked 100 married men: Name the one woman in the world you'd leave your wife for.
Name a kind of item that people frequently buy on impulse.
Name something that was worn in the 1970s.
Name a way to wake someone up in the morning that would be really mean.
Who on "American Idol" deserves to be paid the most?
Name a kind of business where they take their sweet time waiting on you.
You're sitting at home alone and you hear someone breaking in. What do you do?
Name a reality show where people turn into drama queens for the camera.
Name a reason why fathers want sons.
Name a kind of place where you wouldn't want to sit in the front row.
Name something that creaks when it gets old.
Name an occupation whose members should get an immediate raise.
Name an occupation whose members think that their time is more important than yours.
Name something people carry in parades.
Real or fictional, name someone who's famous for helping the poor.
Name something you'd keep in your house in case of a natural disaster.
Although they're strong for their size, name something at a picnic that ants couldn't carry away.
Name something big sisters teach little sisters how to do.
Name something parents brag about their children when they're babies.
Name an occupation whose members have huge egos.
Give me an expression which contains the word "ring".
Name something a wife tells her husband he needs to change.
Name something that usually happens in September.
Name something associated with Mark Twain.
Name something people do when they're depressed because they've gained weight.
Name a kind of sandwich you can easily recognize by its smell.
Name something where the bigger it is, the more it costs.
Name another word for "scared".
Name something your dog would eat if you let him.
Name something people make up a phony excuse to get out of doing.
Name a part of their own body that people bite.
Name something you do to make your home look occupied while you're away on vacation.
Who do you think is presently the greatest American athlete?
What do you like best about Sundays?
Name a food you sometimes accidentally swallow whole.
Name a quality you admire in others.
Name a word or phrase that ends with "bell".
Name a kind of grinder.
Give me the name of a fad diet that lots of people swear really works.
Name something about you peple might say was "sharp".
We asked 100 married women: Which one of your husband's relatives do you like least?
Past or present, name a singer people listen to when they're feeling romantic.
Name a good place to eavesdrop on people's conversation.
We asked 100 women: Name a place you'd hate to discover you were growing hair.
Name an animal that grunts.
Name a specific gift people give that they have made themselves.
Name something a woman might describe as gorgeous.
If there was a hidden camera at work, name something your boss might catch you doing.
Name an occupation whose members are no better than crooks.
Name something a seven year old takes with him when he runs away from home.
Name a vehicle people can stand up in.
Name something Atlantic City is known for.
Name a trick you do with a yo-yo.
Name a reason the Americans have less money to spend on Christmas this year.
Name something you'd hate to sit on, in a darkened theater.
Name a game kids play in kindergarden.
Name a famous movie director.
Name something people do in their cars if they think no one is watching.
Some people are called "horse faced". Name another animal people look like.
Name something new you just can't afford to buy right now.
Name something you would want to have if you were hunting a vampire
Name a hobby that's traditionally for women, but these days men are doing it too.
Name something you've lost weight for and as soon as it was over you pigged out.
Name a breed of dog that you're doggone nuts about.
Name something people do these days instead of reading books.
Name a punishment kids would love to give their parents.
Give me a Beatles song you think everyone knows.
Name an old fashioned dance where you actually touch your partner.
Name a U.S. city known for having great weather.
Name a way you can tell a person has a cold.
Name something about their boss that workers make fun of behind their back.
Name a sign that people disobey.
Tell me an athlete that people name their pets after.
Name something a really dumb bank robber might leave behind.
Name something people like to keep filled up.
Name something people do with a stick.
Name something a good life is chock-full of.
Name an animal whose breath could knock you out.
Name something a kid hopes he doesn't get for Christmas.
Name something you'd do if you were stuck in a plane on the runway for ten hours.
What do you think is the occupation of a man who's wearing a very expensive suit?
We asked 100 men to complete this sentence: "I just hate spending money on ____."
Name something that starts with the letter "C" that men don't like to do.
Name something women love to share with their friends.
Name something that only works with strings attached.
What's something waiting for you at home at the end of a hectic day?
Name something that only waits for VIPs.
Name another term for a swimsuit.
Name a kind of place that's not much fun to go to unless you have a lot of spending money.
Name something you might get free at a gas station.
Name something that's fluffy.
Name a day to display the flag.
Name something you'd hate to see a spider crawling out of.
Name something a coupld might spend money on for their fiftieth anniversary.
Women can never have too many purses. What's something men can never have enough of?
We asked 100 married women: Name something you almost have to force your husband to spend money on.
Name a movie classic where at the end the lovers go their separate ways.
Name something you've seen people chase.
Name something nobody wants living in their house.
We asked 100 women: Name something you wish your mate would do without having to be asked.
Name something that might be "runny".
Name something a motorcycle cop needs.
Name something pregnant women have trouble getting out of.
Name a man that TV has made very, very rich.
Where would be the worst place to find a bug?
Name something men find it hard to ask for.
Name an activity most husbands would rather their wife keep to a minimum.
Name something a woman pretends to be interested in to make conversation with a man she's interested in.
Name something specific a belly dancer shouldn't eat before she goes to work.
Name something kids make for their parents in nursery school.
Past or present, name a boxing champion who was respected outside the ring as much as he was inside the ring.
Name a reason you might switch doctors.
Name something a person who loses 100 pounds suddenly has more of.
What usually needs fixing in a "fixer-upper" house?
Name something a 10 year old hates more than anything else.
Name something people skip when they're feeling sick.
Other than rain, name a reason a person might close the top of their convertible.
Name something that could go wrong at a dog park.
Name an occupation whose members have a lot of interesting stories to tell.
Name a sign a little kid has been in a fight.
Who is the scariest movie monster of all time?
Name something you're not allowed to carry on planes that you think is ridiculous.
Name Something Dogs Love To Do That Cats Probably Think Is Ridiculous.
Name something money can't buy.
Name something valuable that people should never leave in plain sight in the car.
Name something that most kids would eat until they ate themselves sick.
Name something women do at least twice as much as men.
Name something it's nice to do in front of a fire.
WOMEN ONLY: Name a way you can tell that a guy is a bachelor.
Name a special day when a man is very proud of his wife.
Name something your seat-mate on a plane might be doing that makes you afraid they know something you don't.
Name something that has a valve.
Tell me how many sick days the average person takes in a year.
When the electricity goes out, name something it's hard to do in the dark.
Which city in America charges the most for parking?
Name something women want to do "before they're too old to do it".
Name something associated with Batman.
Name something a police car has that a normal car does not.
We asked 100 women to complete this sentence: "I can't stand my _____."
Name something with a ribbon.
Name something that has a horn.
Everyone wants the best for their kids; specifically the best what?
Name something people grope for in the dark.
Name something a person wishes he could fit into his cubicle at work.
Name a machine that lifts you up.
Name something you can no longer carry on to a plane.
Name something people do to maintain their lawn.
Name something you can often hear, when it's very quiet in church.
Name a kind of place where you see people constantly checking the time.
Name a type of vehicle that makes frequent stops.
Name a movie about a bride.
Name a decision people make that will affect their entire life.
Name something you'd hate to hit while playing golf.
Name a place in the house where sleeping dogs lie.
Name an activity people might do on a Hawaiian vacation.
In these recessionary times, name an inexpensive food that many people have for dinner.
Name something people do to prevent wrinkles.
What do airline passengers do when they're stuck on a runway for hours?
Name someone who does your bragging for you.
What was your proudest achievement when you were a child?
Name a famous singer whose performances really create a "stir".
Name something that needs time to warm-up.
Name something people lose when they're not paying attention.
Even though is taste good, name a downside to eating peanut butter.
Name something you'd hate to drop if you were holding it.
Name an activity that could cause a heart attack.
Roses are red, violets are blue, tell me a poet who's famous to you.
Name a gift teenagers enjoy receiving.
Name the first thing a newly-married couple fights about.
Name a pet that doesn't live very long.
People move to California for the weather. Name a reason they move away. 
Name a place where the men tend to outnumber the women.
Name a medical condition that ends in "itis".
Name an occupation in which you might have to act as a part-time shrink to your customers.
We asked 100 women: If you were to walk out on your husband, where would you go?
Tell me something about "Snow White".
Name something that some parents are very strict about, while other parents are very lenient.
People are always complaining about taxes; Name something our taxes pay for, that you approve of.
Name something Regis Philbin talks about that makes Kelly Ripa's eyes glaze over.
Name something that wakes you when you're camping out.
Name a piece of equipment a plastic surgeon might use if he was going to give Mount Rushmore a face-lift.
Name a trick kids use to make the veggies on their plates disappear.
Name something you'd hate discover you didn't have a clean one of, in the whole house.
Give me an expression that has the word "out" in it.
Name something that people like to do at night at the beach.
Name something dogs do to get acquainted that you'd never see people do.
Name someone in your life you've had to prove yourself to.
What would you trust your husband to fix around the house.
Give me another word for a "mistake".
Name something people criticize about Dr. Phil.
Name someone you once loved on "American Idol."
Name a reason kids love summer.
Name a food you could still eat even if you had no teeth.
Name an expression that contains the word "wheel".
Name one athlete you'd really love to meet.
Besides a Tyrannosaurus, name a type of dinosaur kids learn about in school.
Name a comedian who has, or had, a TV series. (full names)
Name something a person owns that reflects their personality.
Name somewhere you would go if you were a fugitive from the law.
Name a place where a lot of people wear sunglasses.
Name something you know about the Earth.
Name an occasion a woman thinks is important and a man thinks is a nuisance.
Name a famous Scott or Scottie.
Name a U.S. President you would describe as "handsome".
Give me a fruit or vegetable that is purple.
Name something that ends with the word "code".
Name something you worry you won't have money for.
Name a public place you wish people wouldn't take their dogs.
Name something people always have to cut.
Name something in your home that has to be replaced every few years.
Name something you can do while riding in a motor home that you can't do in a car.
Name an occupation in which you're likely to come home physically exhausted.
Name a breed of dog that needs doggie downers?
Name the country you think the most people come to America from.
We asked 100 women: Name a complaint you have about pantyhose.
Name something that makes the "fun" house in the neighbourhood so much fun.
Name the hippest city in the world.
Name something a man needs to really enjoy a football game.
Name something a woman does when she turns fifty.
Name something people buy where "bigger is better".
Name a tool in your garage that best describes your parenting skills.
Name something you could do in the waiting room of a hospital to pass the time.
Name an occupation that's not for the squeamish.
Name a place people go when they're troubled.
Name something people take with them to the basement when a tornado is coming.
Name something you should never buy without testing it first.
Name a good snack to have at a poker game.
Name a location where you had your first kiss.
Name something in bed you might fall asleep while holding.
In a large family, name something kids have to wait longer for.
Name something that you would be willing to pay twice as much for at a convenience store because you need it quickly
Name an animal in the cat family that you would never keep as a pet.
Name something a person wearing a top hat would also probably be wearing.
Name an Olympic event in which speed is not important.
Name something a pet-owner might wish their cat did less of.
If King Kong were put in a zoo, name something the zoo would need.
Name something most people know about Lucille Ball.
Name something you associate with Bill Cosby.
Name your favorite flavor of Cambell's soup.
Name something specific that you'd love to wake up to the smell of.
Name a food that people give as gifts during the holidays.
Name something specific people skip.
Name something a reporter wouldn't want to happen while on air live.
Name something that a fisherman might keep in his garage.
Name a spy movie without James Bond in it.
Tell me a person you address using sir or ma'am.
Tell me something that you'd never consider eating without salt.
Name something that never lasts as long as you hope it would.
Name something an accountant might do the day after taxes are due.
Name a costume adults like to wear on Halloween.
Name something people might regret doing to their body.
Name a popular flavor of tea to drink when you have a cold.
Name a dance that you'd never see someone do at a dance club.
What is something you might do ahead of time to prepare for your high school reunion?
Name a profession in which you'd often go into strangers' houses.
What do many people think will change about their partner once they get married?
If Batman got put in jail, name the last person he woud call to bail him out.
Name a magazine that you wish your life was more like the pages of.
Name the age that a male would no longer like to be called a "boy."
We asked 100 wives: If you could be single again for one day, name something you'd do.
Name a snack food that has cream in the middle.
Name something an accountant stocks up on for tax season.
Name a chore that you try to get done before the rain comes.
Name the heaviest thing in your house.
If a 10-year-old became president, what's the first thing they would outlaw?
Name something you do to avoid smelling an odor.
On a scale from 1-10, how bad does your headache have to be before you call in sick to work?
Name something dogs hate having done to them.
Name an occupation in which a man would probably have to wear a tie every day.
Name something that might have a cherry on or in it.
Name something you might log onto the Internet to check everyday.
Name something people put on their cat for a silly photo.
Name something you do to keep your cool when you're upset.
Name something you can find out about a plane flight just by looking at an airport monitor.
Name a reason you might want to change seats on a plane.
Name something a stay-at-home parent might miss about working a regular job.
Name something a woman might ask her husband to get rid of once they have kids.
Name something you need to play Trivial Pursuit.
Name a reason you might be annoyed at the person sitting next to you on a plane.
If you were driving someone else's car, name something that would be hard to get used to.
Name a part of the body that doesn't get sunburned.
How many movies do you see in a theater in one year?
Name something you wear that you don't replace or buy new very often.
Name something you peel. (BE MORE SPECIFIC than FRUIT)
Name an instance where a teenager might get sweaty palms.
Name an occasion for which people might include cash in a card.
If you were dating someone 10 years older, about what might you have different tastes?
Name a specific reason kids give for not wanting to eat a vegetable.
Name something women might leave lipstick marks on.
Instead of the usual instrumental music, what kind of music would you be surprised to hear playing in an elevator?
Name something a baby will not remember about their first birthday party.
Name a gift that you'd never buy for your workplace secret Santa exchange.
Name a kind of place where parents are embarrassed by their misbehaving children.
Name an animals that could rule the world if it were as smart as humans.
Name something you do when your zipper gets stuck.
In the old days, name something a doctor probably removed without putting you to sleep first.
In art class, name something a kid might use cotton balls to make.
Name something that would keep you from going back to a restaurant if it was bad.
Name a food that's good with almonds.
Name something that gets adjusted.
Name something you might see floating in the sky.
What might a man tell his girlfriend that he's waiting for before proposing marriage?
Name something Detroit is known for.
Tell me something in a library that you can't check out.
If a business woman were retiring, name something she'd be thrilled to never have to wear again.
Name an ingredient that is gross on its own, but makes desserts delicious.
Name a punishment children get for bad behavior that wouldn't be very effective to use on criminals.
Name a place that's fun to take a date, but not to take a baby.
Besides a police officer, name a profession where it's important to carry identification.
Name an image that might accompany an article about teachers.
Name a sport that you have to be in great shape to play.
Name a reason why a person might be jumping.
Name a place where it would be inappropriate to tell a dirty joke.
Name an article of clothing you don't wear two days in a row.
If you were a stand-up comedian, who would you not want to have in your audience?
Name something mothers nag their grown children to do.
Name something you'd hate to see your dentist holding.
Name an occupation that attracts ambitious people.
Name something associated with Kentucky.
Name an animal with sharp teeth.
Name a place where a woman might be embarrassed to leave lipstick marks.
Name something that goes around the world.
Name an auto part that people often have replaced.
Tell me a woman's name that starts with the letter "J".
Name something people always say when they're trying to end a relationship.
Name something a child might sleep with.
Name something in your house that you wouldn't want to get stuck moving by yourself.
Name something rude people do while smoking.
Name an ingredient you find in most Italian food.
Name something you might see smoke coming out of.
Name something that's described "smoky".
Name an animal that carries its babies.
Name a good way to teach children the value of money.
Name something a car thief might see inside a car that might make him think twice about stealing it.
Name an animal that has scales.
When you hear the words "music legend", what performer comes to mind?
What animal is the most important to mankind?
Name something teenagers teach their parents how to use.
Name an occupation whose members use the expression "Off Duty".
Name a college you'd like to send your children to.
Name an occupation where you don't have to look your best.
Name a sound you'd hate to hear in the middle of the night.
Name a way in which parents spy on their teenagers.
Which breed of dog is the supermodel of dogs?
Name something a king might insist he be buried with.
Name something your mother-in-law complains about when she visits your house.
Name something Donald Duck does that most ducks don't.
Tell me something about a duck.
Name something that gets heated.
Name something some men still consider unmanly to do.
Name a bad habit that kids pick up from their older brothers and sisters.
Name a precious stone or gem.
Name a reason someone turns off all the lights in their house.
When you need information fast, what do you do?
Name a reason Simon Cowell should be happy, not cranky.
Name a celebrity famous for wearing glasses.
If Martians landed on Earth, which animal might they think runs this planet?
Real or fictional, name a famous family you'd like to see on Family Feud.
We asked 100 women: "Past or present, if you could have a famous woman's face for a day, whose face would you choose?"
Name a practical but unromantic gift that husbands buy their wives for Christmas.
Give me a phrase that uses the words "out of".
Without speaking, tell me a way people say thank you.
Name a vehicle that's harder to operate than a car.
Name a food that's difficult to eat with a fork.
Name something that begins with "feel the ____".
Name something you might find at an oasis.
Name something a nudist wouldn't want to sit on.
Name something you "pull" out.
Name a kind of test you'd never want to fail.
Name something you worry about the condition of.
Name something rich people might sell if they need to raise cash.
When you were a kid, what would happen if you brought home a bad report card?
Name something that gets fragile when old.
Name a food you lick off your fingers.
Name a kind of place where time seems to pass very slowly.
Name something that's hard to stay on.
Name a famous guy who really might be the "most interesting man in the world".
Name something that takes time to grow on you.
We asked 100 women: Name something there's a shortage of.
Name something you "check" every day.
Name another word for a fight.
Name a man who thinks he's the greatest.
Name an animal that would just love to rip you apart.
Name a kind of jam.
Tell me something that wins a blue ribbon at a state fair.
Real or fictional, name someone who married a prince.
Name a person who is paid to make decisions.
Name a way you can tell the person you're talking to is losing interest.
We asked 100 women to complete this sentence: "My guy would never believe how much I spend on _____."
Name a musical instrument people see being played on a street corner.
Name something a waitress should never be without.
The number one food item in the world is a fruit. Which one is it?
Name something of yours that's falling apart.
Tell me something that you might accidentally throw into your garbage that would send you digging for it.
Tell me something warm and soothing you hate to get out of.
Tell me something you pay people to find for you.
Name someone who can tell you good news and bad news.
Name a symptom that would cause you to say: "I think I'm coming down with something."
When kids don't want to go to school, name an illness that's easy for them to fake.
Name something that loses its elasticity.
Name something that gives a woman support.
Tell me the type of music a teenager might play to annoy a senior citizen.
Name someone who might ask to see your driver's license.
Name a fruit you could still eat if you didn't have any teeth.
Name a slang expression for the phrase "Be quiet"!
Specifically, what are you doing every morning at 8 a.m.?
Name something that people "pull down".
Name a pasta dish that ends with the letter "i".
Name a place where you make sure to use your best manners.
Name a subject in which a 5th grader may be smarter than you are.
We asked 100 women: Name a way your husband is different from the way he was on the day you married him.
Name a subject people talk about when they're just getting acquainted?
We asked 100 men: What do you most enjoy shopping for?
Name something a rich person has that's bigger than what other people have.
Of all the television talk show hosts, who would you most like to have over for dinner?
Name an aisle in the supermarket where you spend a lot of time.
Name a famous person with Nelson in their name.
Living or dead, name a celebrity who's notorious for having lots of marriages.
Name something a person needs to host a game show.
If a matador is too wimpy to fight a bull, name an animal he might fight instead.
Name a reason people don't like living next door to an airport.
Name something that might make you dizzy.
Name a situation in which it's really important to make a good first impression.
Name something a hospital patient likes to have nearby.
Tell me a name you might give your pet that you'd hate to have as your name.
It takes two hands to play a musical instrument. Name something else it takes two hands to do.
We surveyed 100 married women...If your husband asked you for a divorce Sunday night, what's the first thing you would do Monday morning?
Name something people take in.
Name something specific everyone complains about.
Real or fictional, name a famous male who wears tights.
Name something no fairy tale would be complete without.
Name a school function at which the school band performs. 
We asked 100 married women: Tell me something your spouse makes too much noise doing.
Name something specific that you were late for because you overslept.
Give me another word for "zero".
Name something kids threaten to do when they're mad.
Name someone Superman might send a Christmas card to.
Name a music performer who goes by one name.
Name a Hollywood's biggest "Mama's Boy".
Name a kind of place where people are herded-in like cattle.
Name something you need relief from on occasion.
Name a big problem with owning a big car.
Name something you hate to use it it's not clean.
Name something that can blow a fuse.
Name something that has flippers.
Name a quality a single man needs in order to get on the most eligible bachelor list.
Name an action star who can also be funny.
We asked 100 women: Fill in the blank: "I want a new ____."
Name something children do at the movies that irritates the older patrons.
Name an ordinary item people carry that they can use for self-defense in a pinch.
Name something you'd hate to leave on in the house if you went on vacation.
Name something you say to people when you take their picture.
Name something you've done and now wish you'd never done it.
Tell me the age when a person falls in love the first time.
People often say: "You can never seem to find one when you need one." Name an occupation they might be talking about.
Name a sport where your main goal would be to stay alive.
Tell me a kind of shoe you would never wear to a formal wedding.
Name an occupation you put your trust in and hope they know what they're doing.
Name something in your house that's over fifty years old.
Name the most obnoxious person on TV.
Tell me a way you've finished this sentence: "I'm so mad I could ____."
Tell me a phrase that starts with the words, "Get to".
Name a job where it doesn't matter if you're ugly.
Give me the name of a store that's in almost every mall in America.
Name a professional who often keeps his clients waiting.
Name a worry you have now that you didn't when you were 10 years old.
Name something a babysitter would hate to discover your house didn't have in it. 
Name something that your neighbor has that you're jealous of.
Name a fruit not used for juice.
Name a reason a person might call into a radio show.
We asked 100 married men: What was hard to share when you moved in with your wife?
Name something a slob throws on the floor when he's done with it.
When you hear a strange noise in the house during the night, exactly what do you do about it?
Name something people drink at Christmas.
Name an event in the Summer Olympics.
Name something someone on a diet might do once every day.
Name something people do to pass the time while cooking.
Name something that's fun to do on a cold, rainy night.
Name a device that you seriously think you could not live without.
Name a sport that recently became popular with women athletes.
Name something you find hidden under a person's mattress.
Name something you'd love to wake up to the smell of. (More specific than "food.")
What hotel feature do children often get excited about?
Name a reason why you might go a whole day without watching TV.
Name something a Radio DJ does more often than most people.
Name something that might come in your drink, if you order a fancy cocktail.
Name something you didn't have to worry about when you were a kid.
Name a holiday that falls on a certain day of the week.
Name something in your daily routine you could still do even if you're wearing a strait jacket.
Name something you wouldn't want to lose on the dance floor.
Name something a mom says that her kids pretend not to hear.
Name something that a woman often wears tighter than a man.
Name a phrase parents use to make their kids feel better about losing.
Name something about a celebrity's life that gets plastered on magazine covers. (More specifice than "love life.")
Name an event where you get more pictures taken in one day, than during the rest of the year.
Why might you wear shorts in the Winter?
Name a reason why a car would be pulled over on the side of the road.
Aside from athletes, name someone who sports fans complain about.
Name a type of vehicle where you usually sit in the back.
Name the part of a secretary's job you would probably find the most annoying.
Name a question that gets asked on just about every first date.
Name an occupation that would be bad for someone who hates physical contact with others.
Which part of your body might be sore after a night of dancing?
Name a car that old people like to own.
Name something kids say they'll never do like their parents.
What sight would make it obvious that you are in an Old West Saloon and not your neighborhood bar?
Besides their beds, where else do college students fall asleep?
If you were in the Army, name something you might get yelled at for not doing.
Name something you'd see in a person's closet that would tell you they lived in a cold climate.
youve had a bad day name something youre told to do to make you feel better
Name a characteristic of an actor's girlfriend.
Name something a kid might leave behind on a school bus.
Name something a professional athlete might do to land on Santa's naughty list.
without ever seeing it how can you tell theres a mouse in the house
without saying anything what might your date do to make you worry that you have bad breath
without the uniform how can you tell that someone is in the military
you use cheese to catch a mouse but what do you use to catch a spouse  
youre at a red light and want to race the car next to you what would you notice about the competition that would stop you from even trying
why would someone prefer to own a camera instead of a camcorder
why would someone want to be employee of the week but not student of the week
why would your spouse make a bad co worker
why wouold your spouse make a good private eye
with eight arms name something an octopus would be good at
why might you leave a restaurant before even eating there
why might you re read a book
why might you want to crash someones wedding
why would a cheerleader say she had a bad day
why would a woman refuse a ride in a convertible
why might you ask to be moved to a different room in your hotel
why might you change clothes before leaving work
why might you fly home for the holidays instead of driving
why might you have to stop the car during a long ride
why might parents wait til after babys born to give it a name
why might someone avoid raising their arms
why might someone ride their bike to work
why might someone who doesnt like reading go to the library
why might someones phone number be unlisted
whose car would a thief be unlikely to steal
why might a child go to bed early without being asked
why might a cop who pulls someone over not give them a ticket
why might a door to door salesperson skip a particular house
who is the first person a man goes to if hes considering proposing
who might a person be with if both people are dressed identically
who or what might you see pulling a sleigh
who would you find at a high school football game
whose call might you wait by the phone for
which words do you dread hearing at the dentists office
while at the weddding name a way you can tell that the marriage wont last
while vacationing what might a cheapskate buy as souvenirs for her friends
who in your partners life were you most nervous to meet
who is a childs most anticipated visitor
which tattoos must tattoo artists be tired of giving
which terms for weather phenomena could a roller coaster be named after
which type of place do you associate with being smoky
which state do you think of first when you think of the south
which subject would most elementary school kids say is their favorite
which superhero has the coolest costume
which superhero would you least trust to babysit your children
which superhero would you most like to have for a bodyguard
which profession would a clean freak never take up
which school grade would a teacher need most patience in order to teach
which section of the department store do you avoid visiting if you have a kid along
which spooky halloween character would you hate to run into in a dark alley
which sports are you most likely to break an arm playing
which part of parenting do many parents have trouble doing
which part of your body can be used to flirt
which part of your grooming routine would be easiest to skip on doing
which part of your morning routine would you refuse to leave home without doing
which person in your life were you most nervous to introduce a partner to
which office supply is most likely to cause an injury
which orchestra instrument would be most effective if you wanted to wake someone up
which part of a newspaper would a teenager likely read first
which foods are you most likely to grab for a late night snack
which former president would look funny wearing a dress
which group of people in a persons life might have given him/her a nickname
which item of clothing will you wear more than once before washing it
which items are most commonly found in a restaurants lost and found box
which country might an american woman fantasize about finding romance in
which festive holiday was more fun when you were a kid
which flavor of ice cream do shops probably sell most of
which food is most likely to make someone lose a tooth
which food that gets stuck in your teeth should be avoided on a date
which circus or sideshow performer had better have a good insurance policy
which class do students take in college thinking it would be an easy a
which color of makeup is almost never flattering
which color would you be surprised to see a bride wearing on her wedding day
which baby product comes in male and female versions though it wouldnt need to
which bad work trait would be hard to detect while interviewing someone
which beverage would you be most surprised to see served with a fancy meal
which celebs autograph would sell for the most money
which christmas movie is played the most often over the holidays
which animal has the best chance of winning at the hurdles
which animals are likely to be considered evil
which animals communication sounds a lot like crying
which article of clothing must you try on 100 of before finding one that fits
where might you take someone on a date if you didnt want to spend any money
where specifically would you most hate to find ants
where were you the last time you felt youd been ripped off
where were you the last time your legs fell asleep from sitting too long
where might you be if youre sitting in a cramped spot for a long time
where might you find people rooting for the underdog
where might you find the word caution
where might a cheapskate take you on a first date
where might a child have to sit during a time out
where might a man be required to wear a suit
where might a man sleep if his wife is snoring
where might a man take you on a first date that would keep him from getting a second date
where do you think its appropriate for men to go shirtless
where does a woman try to avoid leaving lipstick marks
where in your house might you find something labeled poisonous
where in your house might you hide a christmas gift
where do you get you christmas tree from every year
where do you go specifically to find peace and quiet
where do you hear christmas songs throughout december
where do you hear people say good luck
where can you safely see animals that are usually dangerous
where do celebrities hide out when they want to avoid the press
where do people often go for their honeymoons
where do people usually seek parenting advice
when you dont frame a photograph where do you put it
when you dont want to get out of bed in the morning name something that gets you up anyway
when you want to get off the phone what reason do you give to hang up
when your husband gets home after a long day work what is he ready to do
when youre footing the bill at a restaurant name something you hope your date doesnt order
when sitting next to someone she likes name something a woman does to flirt
when spring comes name something youre excited to see the first one of
when traveling in a foreign country name something youd hate to forget the word for
when visiting your hometown name a place you would definitely visit
when learning to drive what might your teacher do that indicates shes afraid
when living in an apartment name something you can often hear your neighbors doing
when researching their family tree what are people happy to find out about their ancestors
when shes run out of money what might a gambler put on the table
when shopping for a new pair of jeans name something that never fits quite right
when a teenager breaks up name a memento she might throw away
when falling in love what words might someone say to end this phrase i love you will all my ____
when hosting a dinner party what might you ask a friend to bring
when in a place of business how can you identify the boss
when its cold outside name something you dream about doing on a sunny beach
when a celebrity is spotted in public name something they probably hate for fans to do
when a couple breaks up what might one partner want back
when a kid says im bored name something a parent often suggests
when a person wants to sneak a cigarette where do they usually hide it
whats the first thing you do when a cop pulls you over
whats the messiest thing to clean up after the christmas holiday
whats the messiest thing you eat at a baseball game
whats the worst thing that can happen when youre eating outside
whats the worst thing to leave in your pants pockets when they go through the wash
whats the best thing about going to the drive in
whats the best way to order your eggs
whats the first question you ask the babysitter after walking in the door
whats the first thing a husband does when he finds out his wife is pregnant
whats the first thing you do after getting your christmas tree into the house
what would you see at the rummage sale of someone was not planning to have more kids
what would you see hanging from a rearview mirror in a car
what would you wear to a job fair but not to a county fair
whats a term used to describe someone who is very careful with money
what would you hate to learn that you did after a couple of drinks at the company holiday party
what would you hear on the radio that would make you turn the station
what would you need if you wanted to dress as rocky balboa for halloween
what would you pat on a babys body that you would never pat on an adult you dont know
what would you be surprised to hear that a married couple does separately
what would you do if your suit was wrinkly and your iron broke right before a job interview
what would you do in a job interview that would guarantee you dont get the job
what would you expect to find in an enchanted forest
what would you hate to have happen when driving home in a brand new car
what would most people find hard to do when there is loud noise
what would you be annoyed to find that the valet parker had cranked up in your car
what would you be disappointed to find out about your hotel in hawaii
what would you be surprised to find in the vending machine at your gym
what would you be surprised to have happen while riding a stationary bike
what would a new parent dread having to do
what would a taxi driver have to stop doing in order to become a respectable hearse driver
what would compel a consumer of a food product to call customer service
what would make you leave a restaurant before ordering
what type of prize are game show contestants most excited about winning
what type of vehicle might a family with lots of children want to own
what was your worst nightmare about
what will a child do during a love scene in a movie
what would a clown have to remove in order to fit in a clown car
what traffic signs describe your love life
what type of establishment should never have a drive thru window
what type of pet might a person have if they lived in a small apartment
what specifically might someone do when they walk into their surprise party
what stereotypical features might a nerd have
what sticks in your head most from an irritating but memorable commercial
what time is the earliest youre willing to wake up on a saturday
what reasons would prevent you from becoming a teacher
what should a man dress as if he wants to get a lot of dates on halloween
what should every baseball player make sure he has before the game starts
what song do you think santa claus has as his cell phone ringtone
what specifically keeps you from getting a degree
what profession would you want your mate to have just because itd be useful around the house
what quality do you think a boss looks for first when hiring a new employee
what reason might a teen give for why theyre dropping out of college
what reason would most people give for why they drink coffee
what occupation might someone have that makes you think theyd have a flair for romance
what occupation might your blind date say they have that would make you guess they were attractive
what olympic sport would be most fun to watch live
what places are most likely to get tagged with graffiti
what name would you give your daughter if you wanted to name her after a queen
what novel did you hate reading in highschool
what occupation might someone have if they carry a folder marked top secret
what might you see inside a bag of chips that would make you stop eating them
what might you want to have handy after eating an ear of corn
what might your co worker do to let you know she is very excited about christmas
what might your partner be doing while talking to you that makes them hard to understand
what musical instrument might require you to purchase an extra seat for it if you took it on a flight
what might you find under couch cushion
what might you notice about a car that would make you suspect it was stolen
what might you put in the yard if you had nosey neighbors
what might you see in a personals ad that makes you think it was placed by a barbie doll
what might you find in a closet from the 1970s
what might you find on your new car that would make you suspect its not really new
what might you find out about a date that would make you fear he was much younger than you though
what might you find out about a job that would keep you from accepting it
what might you do after eating dinner
what might you do at a party that youd regret the next day
what might you do in your sleep that someone else would find cute
what might you find in a briefcase that would make you think it belonged to a spy
what might someone use while cutting their own hair
what might you ask to borrow from someone at the laundromat
what might you be afraid of while sleeping in a tent
what might you bring to the stadium if you wanted to be featured on the jumbo tron screen
what might you buy with you favorite sports team logo on it
what might somebody do that would annoy fellow theater goers at a play
what might someone at the symphony do that tells you theyre enjoying the music
what might someone do while sleeping that tells you theyre having a nightmare
what might someone hope to get by going on a reality tv show
what might authorities ask to see when youre crossing an international border
what might be outside a house in order to keep trespassers out
what might some women love more than their spouse
what might a rockstar do at a concert hall that prevents him from getting hired again
what might a woman brag that her husband is better at than most
what might a woman have to do in order to become a supermodel
what might a woman try to keep dry while at the waterpark
what might an adult wear that has their name on it
what might a man complain that his wife treats him like
what might a man have on his body that some women consider a turn on and others consider a turn off
what might a man refuse to do early in a relationship that would make his new girlfriend suspect he was married
what might a mobster do that gets him kicked out of the family
what might a professional athlete do just after a sports game to avoid getting sore muscles
what might a library start offering if they really wanted to attract patrons
what might a mail carrier see in someones yard that would prevent him from delivering their mail
what might a man ask a woman who hes trying to pick up
what might a man be wearing that makes you suspect hes a burglar
what might a kid get in trouble for writing on
what might a kid have a hard time doing while in their halloween costume
what might a kid take along if hes planning to run away from home
what might a kid want to do all day long during summer break
what might a driver fail to do that could cause an accident
what might a fan ask their favorite musician for if they met in person
what might a hitchhiker take with him in order to seem less dangerous
what might a kid bring home that would cause their mom to say get that out of here!
what might a kid forget to bring to the pool that would prevent him from being able to swim
what might a cowboy be ridiculed for being bad at
what might a cowboy do in order to catch a womans eye
what might a daring thrill seeker suggest you do for a first date
what might a date do in the first 5 minutes that tells you they have bad manners
what might a date do on your answering machine that would keep you from calling them back
what makes a taxi driver say he has ahd a lucky day
what might a bicyclist use to keep safe at night
what might a child bring to summer camp in case they get homesick
what might a child do in the grocery store that embarrasses their parent
what kind of food should not be served at a wedding
what kind of message do people put into a bottle
what kind of tasks do we now handle online that we didnt use to 10 years ago
what kind of trouble might the teenage lead character in an afterschool special be in
what kinds of tasks do we now handle online that we didnt use to 10 years ago
what is the worst mode of getting home when carrying a lot of groceries
what item might a person who cant cook be asked to bring to thanksgiving
what item that you wear year round gets exceptionally gaudy during the holidays
what items are probably stolen most often from a hotel
what jobs do you associate with teenagers
what is the maximum number of times its okay for your partner to call you at work
what is the most memorable night of a teenagers life
what is the most romantic city in the world
what is something your spouse does to prevent you from sleeping
what is the first song you learn how to play when playing the piano
what is the first thing you would do after a fender bender
what is something a divorced couple will stop sharing
what is something in your house that needs to be replaced regularly
what is something on your body that shows youve been hurt
what is something youd be embarrassed if your dog did to someone
what grade were you in school when you developed your first crush
what happens to a couch that lest you know its time to get rid of it
what hobby or activity could cause a man to have missing teeth
what in a crime scene would an investigator check for fingerprints
what does a person with bad eyesight do first thing in the morning
what does las vegas have more of per capita than any other city
what domestic activity would you be surprised to find mrs claus couldnt do
what everyday activity burns the most calories
what do you think a high school mascot wears under his costume
what do you worry about when bringing a date to your company holiday party
what does a child do more of once they become a teenager
what does a human have that a robot doesnt
what do you need in order to find buried treasure
what do you need to see in order to feel like the holidays are coming
what do you see at a rodeo
what do you see in someones mouth when theyre laughing hard that you dont ordinarily see
what do you do when you want to sing along with a song but dont know the words
what do you do when your host for dinner serves something you dont like
what do you find out about a hotel ahead of time when deciding whether to stay there
what do you find out about a person right away on an online dating site but much later if you meet in real life
what do tourists ride in or on that makes them stand out
what do you check before going to bed
what do you do at the first sign of sickness to try and prevent it from getting worse
what do you do if you cant pronounce someones last name
what do you do when reading to kids but not when reading by yourself
what do some people refuse to go swimming without
what do some women say about men as a reason for why they cant get dates
what do teenagers do with their families at the christmas holiday that they probably would be embarassed to have known
what do thieves most commonly steal
what do politicians claim to understand though most have never experience it
what do roommates fight about most often
what do santa claus eater bunny and the tooth fairy have in common
what do soap opera characters and wealthy people have in common
what do some people need in order to feel comfortable dancing in public
what do people do to avoid getting parking ticket
what do people do with their cell phones thats annoying
what do people miss about their youth
what do people pay to have guessed at the carnival
what do people use to keep their place in a book if they dont have a bookmark
what do parents do as part of their childrens bedtime routine
what do parents most like to receive from their children
what do people bring back as a souvenir from disneyworld
what do people do more on the 4th of july than on the 5th of july
what do drivers do when they see a police car behind them
what do many people do on the day after thanksgiving
what do most parents use to quiet their baby
what do most people hope to accomplish by the time they are 30
what day or occasion are you most likely to eat brunch
what diaper bag item would a parent hate to be without
what did you do as a baby that youre glad you dont do in public anymore
what do cats have the we dont have
what do college students do that annoys their professors the most
what complaint might a rockstar make about his life
what complaints do people make about the christmas holiday
what could your computer run without but it would be a bummer not to have
what daily activity would the queen of england have trouble doing in her crown
what can some birds do that other birds cant
what can students do to make their teacher like them
what can you do to get shown on the jumbo screen at a football game
what can you find out about person by reading their bumper stickers
what can you use as packing material instead of styrofoam
what activity do truckers do daily that they couldnt do if driving a school bus
what ailment might you have the morning after a wild party
what are kids told to do when eating a food they dont like
what are some things truckers might take with them on a trip
what beverage might the bride be afraid to drink in her gown before the wedding
we asked 100 women when you should be focusing on romance name something your mind is often distracted by instead
we asked 100 women where do you wish your partner was more willing to go with you
we asked 100 womenwhich accessory or piece of clothing do you buy most often
what about a man might cause his girlfriends family to say hes not good enough for her
we asked 100 women name a gift that youd alwasy be happy to get from your partner
we asked 100 women name a place where you see lots of handsome men
we asked 100 women name something you like to see a man do because it expresses his gentle side
we asked 100 women name something you would not like to have a man do for you on a date
we asked 100 women what might you get 2 tickets for in order to entice your crush into a date
we asked 100 single men what would you love for a woman to love as much as you do
we asked 100 singles describe last date with movie genre
we asked 100 unmarried couples where does your partner sleep when you stay at your parents house
we asked 100 wives tell me something you do to get some sleep when your husband is snoring
we asked 100 women if youre underdressed for a party what can you put on quickly to look dressed up
we asked 100 men what is the best place to have a bachelor party
we asked 100 moms how much are you like your mom
we asked 100 parents name something youd tell your children to do first before getting married
we asked 100 parents what was the hardest change to make when you had kids
we asked 100 married men name something your wife can pick out for you because she knows you so well
we asked 100 married people after how many did you know your partner was the one
we asked 100 married women name a chore youd rather do yourself because you like it done a particular way
we asked 100 married women name something your husband does that causes him to be too distracted to listen
we asked 100 men what excuse might you make up to start a conversation with an attractive stranger at a bar
unlike his jacket name a part of your husbands suit that you wouldnt borrow even if you were cold
unlike honey bun name a breakfast food that doesnt make a good pet name
unlike poker what card game would grown men be unlikely to play on a set night each week
unlike the mustang or cougar what slow moving animal would never have a car named after it
up late at a sleepover what might kids do when they hear mom coming to check on them
to appear stong what might a person avoid doing after being dumped
to avoid staining your clothes name something you might consume in the nude
unlike a car name something of his dads that a teen wouldnt want to borrow
unlike age or weight name a number that youd be surprised for someone to offer before a blind date
unlike coffee name a beverage that you could never make money off selling by the cup
tell me the worst way for someone to wake you up
tell me who was at the door the last time you pretended not to be home
tell someone who parents tell their kids to have respect for
theyve cloned a sheep name a creature they should never clone because we already have too many
tell me the most number of people that could squeeze into a telephone booth
tell me the noisiest household chore
tell me the soap opera title that best describes your love life
tell me the title of a movie that used clay motion or puppets
tell me the age when someone should start saving for their retirement
tell me the first big itme you buy when moving to a new house
tell me the first thing you remember spending a lot of money on
tell me the iq a genius might have
tell me the age at which young people think they have it all figured out
tell me the age kids stop believing in the tooth fairy
tell me the age when boys stop playing with stuffed animals
tell me something youd hate to find on the end of your nose
tell me something your spouse does that makes you suspect theyre angry at you
tell me something your teenager washes less often than you do
tell me the age at which children start buying their parents christmas gifts
tell me something you would never borrow from your close friend
tell me something you wouldnt want to do while in the front row at church
tell me something youd be reluctant to buy from a rummage sale
tell me something youd find in your food that would make you send it back
tell me something you put in an emergency road kit
tell me something you take to work only on special occasions
tell me something you use at least 20 times a day
tell me something you use at work everyday but would hate to have to use on vacation
tell me something you might lie to a friend about
tell me something you must teach a new puppy not to do
tell me something you need in order to win the lottery
tell me something you only do when youre sick
tell me something you over did as a teenager that you can laugh about today
tell me something you look for in a potential roommate
tell me something you might find at a crime scene that could be a major clue
tell me something you might find behind the clerks counter in a convenience store
tell me something you might find in a nurses pocket
tell me something you do when you stay up late at night
tell me something you feel before you buy it
tell me something you find in the first few pages of most magazines
tell me something you hate to wear too short
tell me something you have paid too much for
tell me something that is impossible to do with freshly painted nails
tell me something that makes you mad when youre watching tv
tell me something that youd only bring to a rock concert if youre starting to get old
tell me something you do to make yourself comfortable after youve eaten too much
tell me something spies wear to disguise their identity
tell me something that can fit in your hand but is very expensive
tell me something that comes with a remote control
tell me something that gets announced in the newspaper
tell me something that gets passed around
tell me something on your body that has an arch
tell me something people do with horses but no other farm animals
tell me something rude that people do in the checkout line
tell me something specific a detective might look for at a murder scene
tell me something specific that a barbe must get sick of doing
tell me something in your garage that only a very pushy neighbor would ask to borrow
tell me something in your hotel room that youd be disgusted to find dirty
tell me something in your house that beeps when its finished doing its job
tell me something most people check on the internet
tell me something a woman having a midlife crisis might buy
tell me something a woman might do to spoil herself
tell me something about a boys appearance that might make his dates father disapprove of him
tell me something about their parents that a teen finds embarrassing
tell me something co workers talk about on their lunch break
tell me someone who charges you for advice
tell me someone you might address as sir or maam
tell me someone you might hire for a wedding
tell me something a person sees that causes them to scream
tell me something a rich person might have bigger than most peoples
tell me how much a beer costs at a bar
tell me how much a room at a cheap motel costs
tell me how much youd expect to pay for a bottle of wine at a fancy restaurant
tell me an excuse youd use to avoid singing at a karaoke club
tell me an invention that probably led to people having much less spare time
tell me an occupation where you wouldnt wear high heels
tell me another word or phrase that means kiss
tell me how many times most men get their hair cut in a year
tell me a womans name that starts with the letter j
tell me an activity you might do to prove you arent afraid of heights
tell me an article of clothing worn by both men and women
tell me a theme park someone might visit while in orlando florida
tell me a type of public place that always overuses their air conditioning
tell me a type of work vehicle thats often seen as a childrens toy
tell me a way to communicate without technology
tell me a way to get exactly what you want for your birthday
tell me a sign that its time to enroll your dog in obedience school
tell me a specific part of the body that you wish people would stop tattooing
tell me a specific part of your body that you never worry about getting fat
tell me a specific type piece of clothing that many women stop wearing after a certain age
tell me a place where you might accidentally walk off with a pen
tell me a place where you might sing
tell me a question people ask right away when they find out a woman is pregnant
tell me a reason people give for wearing black
tell me a reason why your phone conversation might end suddenly
tell me a rebel who many women adore
tell me a phrase used for getting fired that sounds like it would hurt
tell me a place in the house where a nosey house guest might snoop
tell me a place in the newspaper where you wouldnt want to see your name
tell me a place where the employees sometimes talk down to you
tell me a place where you know youll never get a bill for your meal
tell me a person you wouldnt want to see at a bachelorette party
tell me a persons first name that could be man or woman
tell me a persons first name that might make it hard to tell if its a man or a woman
tell me a food thats often fried
tell me a game that might be played on guys night
tell me a good place to people watch
tell me a hairstyle that nobody should attempt after age 16
tell me a city known for its ski resorts
tell me a color of car you would never buy
tell me a decor item on a fast food restaurant that you wouldnt want on your house
tell me a famous nick or nicholas
tell me a food that made you nervous
tell me a body part strong as arnold schwarzenegger
tell me a breakfast item that only tastes good if its crispy
tell me a characteristic of a man whos described as distinguished
tell me a city in which youd never be bored
past or present name a presidential couple whose dinner conversations youd love to eavesdrop on
posing for wedding photos what might a bride who is taller than her groom do
real or fictional name a famous cowboy
real or fictional name a famous man with long hair
parents shout and yell at football games but at which of your childs activities or events would it be inappropriate to cheer loudly
past or present name a famous character whod have to remove their mask before a date
past or present name a famous tennis player
past or present name a famous tv dad
other than teeth name something people use a toothbrush to clean
other than to buy books why might someone go to a bookstore
other than turn letters name something vanna must get tired of during a wheel of fortune game
other than working name something you could stop doing if you became a millionaire
other than your parents who gave you dating advice when you were a teen
other than reading name an activity that people did more of before tv was invented
other than santa name a character who stars in a christmas show
other than sickness what excuse would a kid use to stay home from school
other than speeding name a reason a cop might pull you over
other than talking name something you shouldnt do while eating
other than love name something that people marry for
other than movie tickets name something a crowded movie theatre might run out of
other than pizza name a food that has melted cheese on it
other than presents what might you find under a christmas tree
other than raise a hand what does a kindergartner do when she knows the answer
other than haircare name something that must be difficult for someone with extremely long hair
other than hallowee name a reason why you might wear a costume
other than himself name something a man cleans before a big date
other than looking up numbers name something a phone book gets used for
other than love name a word thats in almost every love song
other than love name something that money cant buy
other than gambling what do casinos have inside to get customers to stick around
other than good food name something a great restaurant has to have
other than growing vegetables name something a farmer probably does better than most people
other than gumballs name something specific you get out of a gumball machine
other than family and friends name a person you give a gift or tip to during the holidays
other than floats name something people ride on in parades
other than food name something a vendor would sell at a sporting event
other than food why do you like going to a chinese restaurant
other than coins or cards name something people collect
other than cowboy name a profession you often see in cowboy movies
other than cut it name something you expect a beautician to do to your hair during a haircut
other than displays of affection name something you wish couples wouldnt do in public
other than drive name something that a trucker probably does more in an average day than you do
other than cash what can you win by appearing on a game show
other than christmas name a word thats in almost every christmas song
other than christmas name an occasion for which people decorate their houses
other than clothes name something a kid might outgrow
other than coins name something people collect
other than an elevator where do you often hear elevator music
other than bad vision name a reason why someone might wear glasses
other than birds name an animal that builds nests
other than boxing name a sport in which youre likely to see athletes fighting
other than a vacation why might someone end up staying in a hotel
other than academic why might a teen choose a certain college
other than acting name a profession that celebrity actors might take up
other than alcohol name beverage kids drink less than adults
other than a job name something for which you fill out an application
other than a letter name a keyboard key that you use often
other than a restaurant where might you be served bad food
other than a shark name something youd hate to encounter while scuba diving
other than a bar name a place where its common to get hit on
other than a bull name a big clumsy animal
other than a car on what can you find a horn
other than a hand buzzer name something youd be sure to buy at a gag shop
on family feud name something the host asks players about
on his 18th birthday what would a mom hate to hear her son say mom im _________
on thanksgiving day name a specific job that you have the same person do each year
other than a ball name something that a baseball player gets asked to sign
on a game show name something a host must do
on a resume what might a person claim they can do quickly
on a road trip what would you hate to go for miles without seeing
on a scale from 1 10 how much do you fear getting older
on a scale from 1 10 how much do you worry about the future
on average how many hours does a couple sleep on their wedding night
name your favorite filling in a valentines day chocolate
no matter what your age name something that can make you feel like a kid again
on a dating website what activity do people often list as a pastime
on a first date who should your date avoid introducing you to so soon
name the place where you met most of your current friends
name the thing that a teen girl would be most upset to find her mom had snooped through
name the worst article of clothing to forget on a ski trip
name the worst part about riding the bus
name the most inconsiderate way to break up with somebody
name the most used piece of furniture in a house
name the part of his job that a teacher probably hates most
name the piece of clothing that you wash least often
name the place at your house that you go to relax
name the important firsts that people record about a baby
name the last person a couple should fight in front of
name the last person who youd want to catch you smooching someone
name the last thing youd want to happen to you in the airport
name the most important thing a couple has to pick out for their wedding
name the easiest household chore
name the first animal you think of when you picture a farm
name the first thing you would do if you were stranded on a deserted island
name the first thing youd buy before a trip to alaska
name the first thing youd say to the other driver after a fender bender
name the best food to go out for on a friday night
name the best food to put on a mousetrap
name the best gift you could bring to someone who has a cold
name the best way to greet a friend without speaking
name something youre not supposed to do to a cd
name something youre supposed to do with both hands but people often use just one
name somewhere that parents cant wait for their kids to go
name somewhere you might stop on the way to work
name the age at which a man may get thick around the middle
name something your teen likes to wear but you hope hell leave home on picture day
name something youre advised not to do with a microwave
name something youre better off spending a little more on so it lasts longer
name something youre likely to find at a fall harvest fair
name something your parents look for in your date although you may not
name something your parents would criticize you for not having
name something your partner has a hard time doing after a fight
name something your shampoo promises to do
name something your dog might do during a storm
name something your grandma does to her hair but you dont do to yours
name something your grandma might repair when it gets old but you just buy a new one
name something your mother said would cure any ailment
name something your parents ask about every time they see you
name something your best friend does better than your other acquaintances
name something your child has to have and then doesnt use
name something your child knows about you that you hope shes not telling strangers
name something your dog does around the house that youd kick a roommate out for doing
name something youd see more of at a wrestling match than a tennis match
name something youd sneak into a movie theater to avoid to keep from buying it at the concession stand
name something youd want to be sure to do before going up in a hot air balloon
name something youd want to do if you went to new york city at christmas time
name something youll find on the breakfast menu no matter what kind of restaurant youre at
name something youd probably see at a construction site
name something youd put in a breakfast burrito
name something youd see a lot of in california
name something youd need to eat a lot of if you needed to gain a quick 10 pounds
name something youd never buy without seeing it in real life first
name something youd never do to a stray dog you just met
name something youd never forget to do on christmas day
name something youd probably learn at clown school
name something youd hate to see the valet driver doing while inside your car
name something youd hope to see at least one of during a trip to hawaii
name something youd like to have in your backyard
name something youd need in order to dress like a cowboy
name something youd hate to find your date wearing to the symphony
name something youd hate to forget about a person you know
name something youd hate to forget on a ski trip
name something youd hate to have happen while driving a new car home
name something youd hate to lose at the airport
name something youd hate for a beautician to do to your hair without asking
name something youd hate for your date to be allergic to
name something youd hate to be chased by
name something youd hate to find had happened to your car while it was parked
name something youd find in a school lostandfound box
name something youd find in a scientists lab
name something youd find in a submarine sandwich
name something youd get a dirty look for doing in the movie theatre
name something youd expect to pay for at disneyland
name something youd expect to see a lot of in hawaii
name something youd find a lot of in new york city
name something youd be surprised to hear a car navigation system advise you to do
name something youd be surprised to hear that a celebrity did for herself
name something youd become an astronaut just to try
name something youd expect to find on a pirates ship
name something youd be disappointed to find your pizza was missing
name something youd be shocked to see a celebrity wear on the red carpet
name something youd be shocked to see falling from the sky
name something youd be surprised to find that a frat party had none of
name something you write down on paper but wouldnt save to your hard drive
name something youd be afraid to do by yourself
name something youd be disappointed to find your computer came without
name something you wouldnt want to be caught red handed doing
name something you wouldnt want your children to do as you do
name something you wouldnt want your date to talk too much about
name something you wouldnt want your kid bringing home from school
name something you wouldnt do just before running a marathon
name something you wouldnt leave in you car on a hot day
name something you wouldnt miss about daily life if you were stranded on a desert island
name something you wouldnt want the co worker next to you to do non stop
name something you would need if you were putting on a rock concert
name something you would not want to drop your wedding ring into
name something you would rather see live than on television
name something you would see on jerry springer but not on oprah
name something you would hate to be without when the cops pull you over
name something you would hate to find on the bottom of your shoe
name something you would hate to go on a road trip without
name something you would cook in a slow cooker
name something you would find in a college students fridge
name something you would give your valentine if you wanted to break up with them
name something you would hate to be wearing when company comes
name something you wear that you cant forget to zip
name something you wish your kids would do without having to be told twice
name something you wish your relatives would stop asking you about
name something you worry about on a sleepless night
name something you usually only drink during the christmas holiday
name something you want to do at least once on a camping trip
name something you wear at the beach that you wouldnt wear to the grocery store
name something you wear indoors but not out
name something you use to bake a pumpkin pie
name something you use to make burritos
name something you use to shave that can be replaced at the drug store
name something you use while carving a jack o lantern but not while carving a turkey
name something you usually do indoors but might do outdoors when camping
name something you tow behind a vehicle that slows down your trip
name something you try to avoid doing when posing for a photo
name something you try to get rid of that always seems to come back
name something you unplug when youre not using it
name something you take care to hide from houseguests
name something you take home new that could never come in a box
name something you think a princess may bring along on a date
name something you think america or americans waste money on
name something you shouldnt squeeze too tightly
name something you spend less time doing when youre on vacation
name something you take back home with you from your hotel room
name something you should have on hand if you have a cold
name something you should never wear as the guest at someones wedding
name something you should probably book ahead of time if youre going on vacation
name something you shouldnt do after getting a manicure
name something you shouldnt do when a cop pulls you over
name something you should always have handy in your car in case of emergency
name something you should always keep secret even from your partner
name something you should find in most banks
name something you see printed on a sign outside someones home
name something you see when you look up in the city that you dont see in the country
name something you should always carry extra of when flying by plane
name something you see a lot of when you look out the window on a long car ride
name something you see in a room that tells you a teenage girl lives there
name something you see in someones yard as a holdiday decoration
name something you see or hear that reminds you of an ex
name something you put on your face that youd never dream of putting on your feet
name something you remember about the tv show m*a*s*h
name something you request when making reservations at a nice restaurant but not at mcdonalds
name something you ride in or on that makes you dizzy
name something you purchase additionally when you buy a home
name something you put in your mouth but do not swallow
name something you put on a bee sting
name something you put on top of ice cream
name something you often have to spell out while speaking to someone over the phone
name something you outgrow
name something you pour on top of food
name something you probably would see in new yorks central park
name something you might wear to a restaurant that only served cereal
name something you never cook at home but order when eating at a restaurant
name something you never quite believed about the brady bunch
name something you occasionally do that causes you to walk a lot
name something you might stop to do when driving across the country
name something you might take with you on an african safari
name something you might want to buy if youre hosting a halloween party
name something you might have a bad dream about being late for
name something you might pay someone to do while youre on vacation
name something you might plan to do but then chicken out at the last minute
name something you might see at a high school homecoming
name something you might see at the olympics
name something you might find in a kids lunch box
name something you might find on a persons arm
name something you might get a chunk of in your spaghetti sauce
name something you might bring home with from the mardi gras
name something you might buy when you go on a diet
name something you might do in front of a doctor but not in front of most people youve just met
name something you might do with your days off around christmas
name something you might add in an e mail that is not a word
name something you might add milk to in the morning
name something you might be asked to put on your head at a party
name something you might be scared of while camping
name something you may be forced to eat if you lived in the wilderness
name something you may be required to wear around your neck
name something you may get a free sample of
name something you may have once worn with a work uniform but wouldnt wear for a night on the town
name something you keep in your cars glove compartment
name something you look forward to getting in the mail
name something you love to smell but would not want to taste
name something you may be asked at the bank if you forgot your id
name something you hope a vampire leaves home when he goes on a date
name something you hope that youre still doing when youre 80
name something you hope your friend doesnt do house sitting
name something you imagine an inventors house would be full of
name something you have to remove when you go through security at the airport
name something you have to wear in order to be let in to some restaurants
name something you hear outside that lets you know its springtime
name something you heat up in the microwave besides leftovers
name something you hide in your car so that a thief isnt tempted to break in
name something you fold
name something you got before bed as a kid that youd like to get before bed now
name something you hate for a public bathroom to be out of
name something you have an abundance of after you move
name something you find more of at a sporting event than at a movie theater
name something you find on the street that the owner doesnt want returned
name something you find out about a baby from their birth announcement
name something you find out about a hotel ahead of time when deciding whether to stay there
name something you eat that can be described as juicy
name something you end up buying last minute when its in your checkout line
name something you find in a little boys pocket
name something you do with a teddy bear but not a real bear
name something you dont buy at grocery store with a long walk home
name something you dont feel comfortable doing at a neat freaks house
name something you dont want the person next to you to do while youre eating
name something you do to let a friend know she has food on her face
name something you do to let party guests know that its time to go
name something you do to the products at a grocery store but not at a clothing store
name something you do when youre driving alone that you wouldnt do while riding the bus
name something you do while watching a scary movie at home that you cant do in a theatre
name something you do more of when someones taking a home video of you
name something you do to calm yourself after becoming very angry
name something you do to get rid of a song thats stuck in your head
name something you do driving but never on a drivers test
name something you do each day but you never see soap opera characters doing
name something you do in front of a mirror you wouldnt want anyone to see
name something you do in the morning before anyone else is awake
name something you did at middle school dances that you would never do at a dance club now
name something you do ahead of time when company is coming to stay
name something you do at work although you know youre not supposed to
name something you do constantly when you have a cold
name something you clean that gets dirty again within a day
name something you could do after a successful first date that would prevent you from getting a second date
name something you could do in a police car that you cant do in most cars
name something you cut the tag off of before using
name something you cant do while youre in the dentists chair
name something you cant eat after getting braces put on
name something you carry with you just in case but hate to get stuck carrying
name something you check online that you wouldnt want your ex to have your password for
name something you can use to get your car out of the snow
name something you cant buy without an id
name something you cant do in a home gym thant you can do in a real gym
name something you can do during a car trip that you cant do during a plane ride
name something you can do on even the oldest of computers
name something you can do with a pet dog but not with a pet rock
name something you can never find when you need it
name something you call your parents for
name something you can build with wood
name something you can choose about your potato chips
name something you can do at a bowling alley but its not the reason most people go
name something you bring with you everywhere
name something you bring with you to a sporting event
name something you buy in bulk because you know youll lose a few of them
name something you call your best buddy that youd never call your girlfriend
name something womens magazines give advice on
name something you always have with you so you dont get lost
name something you avoid doing though you feel better after its done
name something you avoid if you dont like to hear your own voice
name something warm served at an all you can eat buffet
name something wild that audience members do at a rock concert but not at a symphony
name something with an expiration date that goes bad before you use it all
name something women did to their hair in the 80s but they dont do anymore
name something the police might look for when they search a suspects house
name something the president and vice president should have in common
name something the three stooges do while fighting that youd be surprised to see a pro boxer do
name something very old that you find at many museums
name something the dentist does to your mouth that keeps you from eating afterward
name something the doctor begins to check as you get older
name something the founding fathers wore that would look funny if worn today
name something the government knows about you but you wouldnt talk to a co worker about
name something thats sometimes cheaper to replace than fix
name something thats sticky
name something thats usually fruit flavored
name something thats usually overpriced in a tourist area
name something the baby of a family gets passed down to him
name something thats made from coconuts
name something thats not allowed in some hotels
name something thats often served with cheese at a party
name something thats on your dinner table every night that the dog wont beg for
name something thats only worn once but you never get rid of it
name something thats hard to get over
name something thats hard to guess about a woman youre just meeting
name something thats hard to wash off your hands even with soap
name something thats just more fun to go out and do instead of doing at home
name something thats legal for a police officer to do but not for anyone else
name something thats hard to do on a particularly hot summer day
name something thats hard to find and even harder to keep
name something thats hard to build but easy to tear down
name something thats hard to cook well without burning
name something thats given as a free sample in some stores
name something thats forbidden in most swimming pools
name something thats filled with candy
name something thats currently legal that people should be banned from doing while driving
name something thats different in different regions of a country
name something thats fake on wwe wrestling
name something thats fake on wwf wrestling
name something that your parents had strict rules about but parents today often do not
name something that your siblings accuse you of hogging
name something that youre more likely to have happen when you wear high heels
name something that youve never seen in real life but you see at least 3 of in every action movie
name something that you would wear to a wedding in the desert
name something that youd find more commonly in france than in the us
name something that youd never want your mom to show your date
name something that youd want to avoid if you wore a toupee
name something that you probably dont wash as often as you should
name something that you shouldnt have to do on your birthday
name something that you would find washed up on a beach
name something that you always give your partner a kiss before doing
name something that you can get for free at a casino
name something that you dont wash as often as you probably should
name something that you have accidentally sucked up with a vacuum cleaner
name something that you need a needle in order to do
name something that would be really hard to do without a thumb
name something that would ruin a wedding if it was bad
name something that you always forget if you dont write it down
name something that works better if it has a driver
name something that works by spinning
name something that will make a person age faster
name something that women often do more gracefully than men
name something that womens magazines give advice on
name something that wont work without a battery
name something that was better in the 50s
name something that tastes better plain than fruit flavored
name something that the bride and groom do at a wedding that another guest should not
name something that usually happens before a sports game
name something that was better in the 1950s than today
name something that stars do during a divorce that you wouldnt do
name something that starts with b that people look for in a partner
name something that starts with the word french
name something that regular people go on talk shows to discuss
name something that sibling accuse one another of hogging
name something that someone who gets dates has that someone who doesnt get dates doesnt have
name something that people want to do early in life if possible
name something that politicians say theyd like to end
name something that prevents you from seeing for miles
name something that people dream of winning one day
name something that people normally dont pay cash for
name something that people put on their dogs
name something that people time
name something that people try to get out of
name something that people blow up
name something that people bounce
name something that people buy a special type of ring for
name something that people do that distracts them while driving
name something that once you do it youre neighbors start doing it
name something that only a person who really loves christmas would do as early as october
name something that only a very inattentive driver would forget to do while driving
name something that parents are always telling their kids to clean
name something that must be maintained or it will fall apart
name something that needs to be shiny if you want to impress people at the bowling alley
name something that new orleans wouldnt be the same without
name something that often happens when you call a customer service number
name something that once lived but is now extinct
name something that might get broken at a childs birthday party
name something that might live in your house but you may never see
name something that might physically happen to your body when you get scared
name something that most kids want to have their own of
name something that might be cinnamon flavored
name something that might be happening at school that makes a kid want to stay home that day
name something that might be lying on a teenagers floor
name something that might come out of your nose when you laugh
name something that makes you sleepy on the afternoon of thanksgiving
name something that many people are afraid to drive on
name something that marilyn manson might have borrowed from marilyn monroe
name something that men might fight over in a bar room brawl
name something that looks attractive on a woman but not a man
name something that makes an otherwise average person seem very attractive
name something that makes you feel better when youre having a bad day
name something that kids eat that they arent supposed to
name something that kids think is endless
name something that lives in the ocean that most people wouldnt eat
name something that lives in the ocean youd never want to see on a restaurant menu
name something that is rude to do when someone is talking to you
name something that its hard to do while listening to music
name something that jocks in high school dont do the same as their peers
name something that has pipes
name something that horror movies have made many people afraid of
name something that if bad can take the fun out of a video game
name something that is more difficult to do with glasses on
name something that happens to an old persons body that youd be surprised to hear a teen complaining about
name something that happens to most people but not to santa claus
name something that happens to old jeans that some people consider stylish
name something that happens to you after drinking too much coffee
name something that growls
name something that grows without being watered
name something that happens in spring that puts you in a good mood
name something that happens to a grown up that makes them appreciate their parents more
name something that gets into your house if you leave food out
name something that gets removed with tweezers
name something that gets stuck in a tree
name something that goes around the world
name something that goes round and round
name something that gets caught in a moustache
name something that gets drawn
name something that gets filed
name something that gets in the way of a couple having time to spend alone with eachother
name something that doesnt have to be the characteristic of a president but it usually is
name something that ends with the word box
name something that families commonly do while on vacation
name something that fitting room attendants probably get sick of customers doing
name something that causes you to become friends with someone you otherwise wouldnt have
name something that chili may come with or without
name something that college students get stolen from them on campus
name something that comes in a tube
name something that could completely ruin a runners morning jog
name something that can cause a headache
name something that can help an average guy to look more attractive
name something that can make a comeback
name something that can make you look older than your age
name something that can be pumped
name something that can be renewed
name something that can be spiked
name something that can bring back the memory of an old love
name something that an employer is not allowed to ask during an interview
name something that an unhappily married couple may no longer do together
name something that breaks easily without its case
name something that can be hard to get off a carpet
name something that a very thrifty person would save to re use after a birthday party
name something that a woman might curl
name something that adults might bribe a child into doing
name something that always happens in movie weddings but never at a wedding youve attended
name something that a pill bottle warning might tell you not to do
name something that a regular sized person could never borrow from an nba player
name something that a single person has more freedom to do
name something that a stalker and a detective both do
name something that a teenager starts to do just like her best friend
name something that a person from a warm climate wouldnt know how to do in the snow
name something that a person has a harder time remembering as they get old
name something that a person who dislikes technology might now have
name something that a good mystery movie needs
name something that a las vegas entertainers outfit would have sewn on
name something that a lifeguard probably isnt allowed to do on the job
name something that a long distance couple does to stay close
name something that a mobster family needs
name something that a cowboy would never leave home without
name something that a demanding bride may ask her maid of honor to do that could end their friendship
name something that a divorced person might bring with them into a new relationship
name something that a doctor better not be afraid of
name something teens are excited to do for the first time but adults are tired of doing
name something teens do to butter their parents up before asking for a favor
name something that a child from a large family never has to herself
name something that a couple often does once the kids have all moved out
name something specific your partner did early in your relationship that you wish they still did now
name something stressful that we associate with moving
name something tasty thats used to decorate christmas cookies
name something specific you would not eat if you were on a diet
name something specific youd never buy without trying it on
name something specific youd teach your dog to do if you wanted him to be famous
name something specific you almost always eat out of a bag
name something specific you always get for christmas but never want
name something specific you are likely to be awakened by when sleeping outside
name something specific you do when talking to a child but not when talking to an adult
name something specific that takes longer to dry than to wash
name something specific that teenage girls do around the boy they like
name something specific thats out of proportion in a childs drawing
name something specific that a person in the army has to do each morning
name something specific that a superhero would be useless without
name something specific that a teenager might say their parents dont understand
name something specific that might be different when driving in a foreign country
name something specific that piles up before you can get to it
name something specific about your parenting that your mother in law thinks you should do differently
name something specific at the movie theatre thats gotten too expensive
name something specific on a plane that you wish was bigger
name something specific people eat a lot of in england
name something specific about an old friend that makes it easy to recognize him/her
name something specific about santa that causes children to be afraid of him at the mall
name something specific a man often compliments a woman on when trying to pick her up
name something specific a parent wishes for their child on the first day of kindergarten
name something specific a student might do in oder to become the teachers pet
name something specific a teen might do that shows theyre rebelling
name something some pets wear although its usually only worn by humans
name something special a restaurant might do on certain nights in order to draw in customers
name something specific a couple might do together to get in shape
name something specific a husband might compliment his wife on just to make her feel good
name something sold door to door
name something some babies have that other babies dont
name something some people make for their baby instead of buying it
name something some people wear while mowing the lawn but you wouldnt
name something romantic you hope to still do with your partner when youre 80
name something runners do right after they finish a marathon
name something santa does that you wouldnt want your house guests to do
name something short people can do better than tall people
name something popcorn is sometimes covered with
name something pros do on a golf course that youd look silly doing for mini golf
name something related to finances that its hard to explain to a kid
name something robin hood wore that most men would never leave the house in
name something permanent on a criminals skin that police use to be sure theyve got their man
name something police cars do that youd be ticketed for doin
name something politicians always say theyll improve
name something people want to be fair but it usually isnt
name something people wear that only comes in one size
name something people use to keep their dog in the yard
name something people use to make themselves look younger
name something people use to smell good but you wouldnt use to eliminate you dogs odor
name something people used more often before cell phones were invented
name something people swallow whole
name something people take lots of photos of during a vacation be specific
name something people talk about often although its boring to listen to
name something people use bumper stickers to show support for
name something people should never leave the house without
name something people spend their tax returns on
name something people subscribe to by month
name something people own many of but only use their few favorites
name something people promise to their partners
name something people put on their salad to make it taste better
name something people say theyd love to do if only they had time
name something people listen to headphones while doing
name something people make with apples in the fall
name something people mark on their calendars
name something people often buy in large quantities at the department store
name something people do to let you know theyre bored
name something people do when the clock strikes midnight on new years
name something people fear that comes out at night
name something people in the 1950s thought we would have by the year 2000
name something people do in their cars that you wouldnt want to be caught doing on a bus
name something people do on christmas eve
name something people do the day before a vacation
name something people do to help them fall asleep at night
name something people do before bed that makes it hard to sleep
name something people do differently for a first date than for a 20th date
name something people do for their teeth right before a dentist appointment but not otherwise
name something people do in musicals but never in real life
name something people bite on when theyre nervous
name something people build models of
name something people commonly daydream about
name something people compete over
name something people do at the dinner table even though its considered bad manners
name something people associate with ancient egypt
name something people associate with the 1960s
name something people associate with the tv show 60 minutes
name something parents wish their children would do instead of playing video games
name something parents wouldnt want to find under their childs bed
name something people add to their tea
name something people associate with a christmas carol by charles dickens
name something overpriced that some people buy every day
name something parents do to their kids and then tell their kids not to do
name something parents put on kids before a day of swimming
name something parents tell their kids to do so they dont get sick during flu season
name something on which you might need your boss signature
name something on your body that you want to be shiny
name something or someone that has fangs
name something or someone youd see at a nightclub
name something on the menu that a restaurant might guarantee nobody can finish
name something on their body that a person might want to get rid of
name something on which a persons full name is used
name something on a sandwich that might be slimy
name something on an elephant thats much bigger than on a human
name something on her body that a woman might change the color of
name something offered to first class airline passengers
name something on a boat that might save your life
name something on a car that lets you know the owner takes a lot of pride in their ride
name something of her husbands that a woman might wear
name something of her moms that a kid might wear
name something of yours that youd be angry to find a partner has snooped into
name something most people store in the garage
name something most police officers carry with them
name something no christmas party should be without
name something obnoxious some people do while chewing
name something most parents dont let a child do by himself until hes at least 10
name something most people get paid to do but parents do for free
name something most people probably dont consume enough of
name something most kids are afraid to try but then realize its no big deal after doing it
name something most kids put in their mouths although it doesnt taste good
name something most men probably lie about most
name something most parents cant wait until their child starts doing on his own
name something most classrooms have today that they didnt have 50 years ago
name something most dads get on fathers day
name something most everyone knows about the beatles
name something most families talk about when they get together
name something moms tell their kids to do before eating dinner
name something moms warn their children will make them catch a cold
name something more difficult to do when driving a car with stick shift
name something most castles had
name something men stand around at many parties
name something men trade in for a new one once it gets old
name something miss america needs in order to win
name something moms are desperate for
name something many women regularly buy for their husbands but men dont buy for their wives
name something men do today but probably didnt do 50 years ago
name something men in fairy tales fight against that real men dont
name something many people spend a lot of money on just to impress others
name something many people wear every day but they wouldnt want anyone to know
name something many people would be scared to do alone at night
name something many people are afraid to do alone
name something many people buy with a credit card instead of cash
name something many people do at the same time every day
name something many people do in response to being complimented
name something many parents do for their child long after the child can do it for himself
name something many parents want their children to learn at a young age
name something many parents want their kids home at a certain time for
name something kids start to care more about once theyre teenagers
name something kids try to get as much of as their parents will let them have
name something kids use in the bathtub that an adult would look silly using
name something many grandpas have in common with santa claus
name something kids might use to help them count
name something kids must get asked about over and over
name something kids often ask for before bed that their parents refuse
name something kids hate to do
name something kids look forward to the most in the winter
name something kids love to eat that adults like too
name something kids bring into a swimming pool with them
name something kids do to cool off in summer that you wish you could do too
name something kids do with snow but their parents dont
name something kids get away with in schools today that they wouldnt have 50 years ago
name something in your life that you wish had come with instructions
name something it might be ok to lie to a partner about in order to spare their feelings
name something itd be weird for a divorced couple to continue sharing
name something james bond would never leave home without
name something kids and their teachers both get lazier about at the end of the school year
name something in your house that might get broken during a wild party
name something in your house that rarely needs its battery changed
name something in your house that youd hate to find wasnt working
name something in your life that can cause you to gain a few pounds
name something in your home that you rarely need to change the batteries in
name something in your house that can be dangerous if its left on too long
name something in your house that has numbers on it
name something in your house that has to be changed from time to time
name something in the ocean that begins with the letter s
name something in their yard that people try to get rid of
name something in your garage that you cant use during winter
name something in the car that a 16 year old should know how to use before taking it for a spin
name something in the house that you might not use when people are trying to sleep
name something in the house that you shouldnt leave on when you go out
name something in the kitchen that makes a huge mess if its spilled
name something in a wallet that cannot be replaced
name something in america that is slowly vanishing
name something in cars now that you cant believe people once went without
name something in nature that you wouldnt want to cuddle up next to
name something in a house that gets child proofed
name something in a persons house a burglar wouldnt want to steal
name something in a regular house that might be missing in a bachelor pad
name something in a supermarket that you cant buy
name something heart shaped that you might get for valentines day
name something humans need to live that other planets dont have
name something husbands will admit they borrow from their wives
name something in a house that a spoiled kid might have their own of
name something george washington wore that a modern day president never would
name something girls usually arent allowed to wear until theyre older
name something good to do the night before a big test
name something gross about a water park
name something found in las vegas that youd like to see more of in your home town
name something from art class that young children might take a taste of
name something from her childhood that a woman might keep forever
name something from your ex that you might get rid of when starting a new relationship
name something football players probably dont wear off the field
name something for which a police officer might give you a ticket
name something for which you get a warranty
name something form home you might miss on vacation
name something everybody has but rich people have nicer ones
name something fierce animals have that makes them threatening
name something flashy that movie spies always have be specific
name something every movie theatre fancy or not has
name something every newlywed hopes their mother in law will be
name something every party should have
name something donald trump probably has on his christmas list
name something embarrassing that can happen if you laugh too hard
name something every good joke needs
name something deep sea divers wear that youd look silly wearing in the pool
name something diet food is usually lower in
name something dogs and some toddlers both do
name something dogs get more excited about than people
name something chubby thats cute on a baby but not on an adult
name something cinderella would have a hard time doing in her glass slippers
name something coworkers talk about around the water cooler
name something dangerous that a beginning juggler shouldnt start with
name something children are silent while doing
name something children climb on that makes their parents worry
name something children use to help them pull out a loose tooth
name something china is known for
name something cats can chase all day
name something cats do out in the open that humans go into another room to do
name something celebrities do differently from most parents with their children
name something cheesy people do in family portraits
name something both a logger and a rock star wear
name something both teens and their parents do for fun on a friday night
name something castles have to prevent intruders from entering
name something babies need a lot of
name something babies probably dream about
name something baseball fans argue with the umpire about
name something associated with the game show hollywood squares
name something at a salon that you look silly having used on you
name something at the front of most elementary school classrooms
name something at your house that uses a remote
name something annoying that happens to you on a very windy day
name something annoying that happens with juiceboxes
name something around the house that your family members use the last off and dont replace
name something associated with melanie griffith
name something associated with the 50s
name something an experienced parent does automatically when they pick up a crying baby
name something an underage teen needs their parents permission to do
name something annoying a person might do at an atm when theres a long line behind them
name something annoying about a big city
name something an athlete wouldnt do the night before a big game
name something an audience might do if they dislike the movie
name something an employee might ask their boss for
name something americans wear to show they are ready to party
name something an adolescent girl might be forbidden from wearing
name something an adolescent might not want to get for fear of looking nerdy
name something an adult can do in a car that a kid cant
name something an adult chases down the street
name something about wife makes you think shes a witch
name something about you that has not changed as youve gotten older
name something about your current job thats better than your former job
name something almost every bride wants at her wedding
name something about rapunzels hair she mightve worried about
name something about which many people have phobias
name something about which people read books to get advice
name something about a celebritys life thats plastered in magazines
name something about a teddy bear thats different from a real bear
name something about his job that santa claus might brag about
name something a wrestler would probably never wear during a match
name something a young man would not want to talk to a girlfriends father about
name something a woman should know about a man before marrying him
name something a woman treats better than she treats her husband
name something a woman usually does herself but gets professionally done on her wedding day
name something a womans perfume might smell like
name something a woman might stop maintaining once shes in a serious relationship
name something a woman might suggest her husband do to improve his appearance
name something a woman might take home from her best friends wedding
name something a woman sees that would make her tell her husband to stop the car
name something a teens dad would ask her date when he came to the door
name something a telemarketer must hate about their job
name something a tourist is often seen carrying
name something a woman changes that her husband may not notice
name something a woman might say she needs before she accepts a marriage proposal
name something a teenager couldnt live without
name something a teenager would hate to hear that he did just like his dad
name something a teenager wouldnt want their parent to take away
name something a teen wouldnt be able to go without for a day
name something a teenage daughter parent hope from boyfriend
name something a teenage girls parents would hope that her boyfriend didnt have
name something a soldier took to the first day of kindergarten that they wouldnt take to their first day of training
name something a teen dreads talking to their parents about
name something a teen girl might ask her mom to stay out of
name something a teen might get in trouble for doing in the family photo
name something a rich woman might have
name something a rock stars dressing room is probably full of
name something a school wastebasket is probably full of
name something a sculptor might use to make a statue
name something a pro athlete might wear thats lucky
name something a realtor suggests you do in order to sell your house
name something a resourceful person might use to hang a picture if they didnt have a nail
name something a restaurant owner would hate to tell customers theyve run out of
name something a person sitting next to you at a bar might do to annoy you
name something a person sitting next to you on a plane might do to make you think theyre afraid of flying
name something a pilot tells you on a cross country trip that you bet she doesnt tell her kids on the drive to school
name something a politician does when scandalous news breaks out about them
name something a person might change after breaking up with a partner
name something a person might lie to their spouse about
name something a person should remove before laying out to get a tan
name something a person shouldnt try to change about their partner
name something a person might accidentally leave behind in a taxicab
name something a person might be scared to do at their first swim lesson
name something a person might buy to go with their swimming pool
name something a parent would hope their child outgrows before kindergarten
name something a patient might do that would make a dentist complain
name something a person can be picky about
name something a person may leave behind in their seat area after exiting a plane
name something a parent might limit their childs time using
name something a parent reminds their kid to use at summer camp
name something a parent tells their teen i never did at your age
name something a mob daughter might ask her dad to leave home from her wedding
name something a mom might make her daughter wait til shes 12 years old to do
name something a nice hotel might have in its lobby
name something a parent gives to a kid to make them stop crying
name something a man might ask his dads advice on
name something a man might do at the gym to impress a woman
name something a man might do in the beginning of a relationship that he won t do after about a year
name something a man wouldnt want to have happen to him while hes giving a speech
name something a married couple does together that causes their kid to say ill never do that
name something a lumberjack bride might be wearing under her wedding gown
name something a magician might wish he could make disappear permanently
name something a male rock star might do to make himself look more rebellious
name something a man does that gets him in the doghouse with his wife
name something a lifeguard would wear
name something a little boy might do to imitate his dad
name something a little kid might tell you about santa claus
name something a kid might look forward to when starting a new school year
name something a kid would look for in a new house
name something a king has but most men dont have
name something a leprechaun would have moade for himself out of gold
name something a hobo does to pass his time while ridin the rails
name something a kid does on a saturday morning that you wish you could still do
name something a kid might do at the dinner table that would probably get him in trouble
name something a grown woman might lie about but a young girl wouldnt
name something a guy might do when hes with his girlfriend that his buddies might tease him about
name something a hairdresser would have a hard time doing her job without
name something a health nut would order her lunch without
name something a girl in a pageant would know how to do but most little girls wouldnt
name something a girl wants as a gift that most guys would never want
name something a go cart and a racecar both have
name something a groom would hate to lose before his wedding ceremony
name something a figure skater and a beauty queen have in common
name something a french painter wears
name something a germ o phobe would refuse to do on a date
name something a family does when spending quality time together
name something a family uses in their home a robot family wouldnt need
name something a fast food restaurant has that a fancy restaurant would never have
name something a divorced person might do with their weddingring
name something a doctor might ask a patient to do during a checkup
name something a doctor uses to look inside your body
name something a drive thru worker might forget to give you that would be annoying
name something a dad would look silly borrowing from his child at the bowling alley
name something a daring carnival performer might put in his mouth
name something a department store might sell out of on a hot day
name something a disneyworld character is probably forbidden from doing while in costume
name something a clown might wear oversized
name something a couple shouldnt do until theyve known each other for a long time
name something a couple starts fighting about once they move in together
name something a cowboy wears that makes him sexy
name something a customer might do to annoy a waitress
name something a chef might do to a dish before serving it
name something a child does in the bathtub that an adult would not
name something a child might never do if they werent forced to
name something a clown does with her makeup that you avoid doing with yours
name something a camper does that he wouldnt do at home
name something a car dealer wouldnt want happening to one of their cars on a test drive
name something a car insurance company might ask when you call for a quote
name something a celebrity hopes wont happen while onstage to accept an award
name something a body builder wears even when its cold out
name something a boy might give his prom date upon picking her up
name something a boy scout learns to do that wont exactly prepare him for a future occupation
name something a boy scout wouldnt need to start a fire but you do
name something a burglar would hate to have in the car when the cops pull him over
name something a bartender probably gets tired of from the customers
name something a beach bum might spend the whole day doing
name something a beauty queen wears during a pageant
name somethign kids might collect from the beach
name something a baby cant do at her own birthday party
name something a babysitter shouldnt bring along on the job
name something a bachelor pad needs
name someone youd hate to show up late at your wedding
name someone youd want in your wedding ceremony who youd hate to bring on your honeymoon
name someplace where youd see a lot of people gossiping
name someone whos known for inventing something
name someone whose office people are afraid to enter
name someone you shouldnt get into an argument with because you will lose
name someone who makes money off of giving advice
name someone who takes care of you when you are sick
name someone who works with an assistant
name someone specific who you wouldnt want viewing your facebook page
name someone specific youd be nervous about lying to
name someone who children believe in
name someone in a mans life who youd want to meet before marrying him
name someone in her life who a woman might have a crush on
name someone an author dedicates his book to
name someone famous who wore a cape but was not a superhero
name someone for whom their reputation means the world
name some place where youre not allowed to make noise
name some things that people think college professors wear
name some activities people do on christmas that they dont do on other holidays
name some dangers of taking a vacation to the north pole
name some leisure activity you often spend more time doing than you originally expected to
name one of the greatest inventions of the last 100 years
name one word youd see on the cover of a womens magazine but probably not on a magazine for men
name people used to call women in the old days
name another word for shy
name another word for winner
name another word or phrase for getting married
name another word that a cool guy might use for car
name on kitchen gadget that even a single guy owns
name another phrase to say stop bothering me
name another way of saying that someone has a big ego
name another word for a persons brain
name an olympic event that youd hate to wear the uniform for
name an organization thats only for females
name an unhealthy ingredient you often see in kids cereals
name an occupation you wouldnt want your partner to have because its way too stressful
name an occupational hazard for a cowboy
name an odor thats so distinct you know right away what it is
name an old time singer known as much for his charisma as his voice
name an occupation where you might use a whistle
name an occupation where youd hate to find out that your customer lived on the 22nd floor
name an occupation whose title ends with agent
name an occupation where you have to wake up early in the morning
name an occupation where people rarely wear their uniform after work
name an occupation where you are either loved or hated
name an occupation that would never drive a small car
name an occupation that you associate with having a positive attitude
name an occupation that you hope is great at their job 100% of the time
name an occupation that youd be in trouble if you disrespected
name an occupation that deals with keys
name an occupation that requires you to constantly wash your hands
name an occupation that should be paid much better
name an occupation that would cause pinocchios nose to grow constantly
name an occupation in which youd sometimes have to be on call
name an occupation in which your spouse might have to travel a lot
name an occupation that a boy wouldnt want his girlfriends father to have
name an occupation in which youd be at greater risk of having a hernia
name an occupation in which youd be on the phone all day
name an occupation in which youd get to use a 2 way radio
name an occupation in which youd have an audience
name an occupatin that involves lifting boxes
name an occupation in which the uniforms look a lot like pajamas
name an occupation in which you might need to send a photo in order to be considered
name an occasion in which dancing is part of the celebration
name an occasion where itd be embarrassing to show up empty handed
name an occasion where people get photographs that make them look better than in real life
name an occasion where people often wear white
name an occasion for which couples have formal pictures taken together
name an occasion for which men buy gifts for their wives
name an occasion for which youd send someone a card
name an object that kids use only with adult supervision
name an object that people often find themselves yelling at
name an occasion for which a woman might buy a new dress
name an item found in your fridge or pantry that you can use to clean the kitchen
name an item that usually comes with a lot of packaging in the box
name an item a company might put their logo on and give out for free
name an ingredient that cookies would taste terrible if you forgot to add
name an ingredient that you use in baking but would not eat on its own
name an instrument youd be surprised to see played in a rock band
name an indoor activity you spend much more time doing in winter
name an ingredient some people would say makes all food taste better
name an herb people either love or hate
name an imaginary creature that you once thought was real
name an expression that ends with the word house
name an extra you might pay more for at the gym
name an excuse that people give for leaving a boring party early
name an excuse youd give to a cop to try and get out of a speeding ticket
name an exercise youd do a lot of if you were in the military
name an expression that begins with the word first
name an excuse people use at a party to get away from a boring conversation
name an excuse someone might give to get ahead of you in the checkout line
name an event thats a big deal in your life though it would never make the news
name an event thats often held as a fundraiser
name an event you always attend but never enjoy
name an excuse a game show contestant might give for losing
name an event in a celebs life thats big news in a gossip magazine
name an event in your life that your loved ones might travel to attend
name an event many people dont like to attend without a date
name an event that might cause the local news to interrupt your regular tv show
name an attendant of a highschool cheerleader that could help her become president of the united states
name an electronic device you could not live without
name an elevator button that doesnt have a number on it
name an employee youd find at a fancy hotel but not at a budget motel
name an article of clothing women think men look handsome wearing
name an article of clothing worn by both men and women
name an article of clothing you cant wash in the wash machine
name an article of clothing that you dont wash every time you wear it
name an article of clothing that you wouldnt wear to bed
name an article of clothing thats often itchy
name an article of clothing thats too sexy for a woman to wear to the office
name an article of clothing that most people own at least 10 of
name an article of clothing that only a neat freak would iron
name an article of clothing that usually cant be put in the dryer
name an article of clothing that you dont have to try on before buying
name an appliance most people have only one of
name an article of clothing associated with a foreign country
name an article of clothing that makes you feel like you cant move
name an animal you might find in a junkyard
name an animal you would find in the ocean but not in a pond
name an animal you would not want to encounter hanging from a tree
name an animal youre sometimes allowed to pet at the zoo
name an animal thats not loved by many people
name an animal thats shown as cute in cartoons but is disgusting in real life
name an animal whose print looks natural on them but gaudy when your neighbor wears it
name an animal with a terrifying bite
name an animal that would make a good bodyguard
name an animal thats associated with being dirty
name an animal thats black and white
name an animal mentioned in the song 12 days of christmas
name an animal that many children want for a pet but seldom get
name an animal that people ride
name an animal that some people think others are crazy for eating
name an american state thats often visited on family vacations
name an animal a two timing boyfriend gets compared to
name an animal likely to perform tricks
name an age at which people dont want to get any older
name an age that many people look forward to
name an aging rocker whos probably not the ladys man he once was
name an activity thats often described in christmas songs though people seldom do it in real life
name an activity you can learn to do while visiting hawaii
name an adjective that describes both your spouse and a piece of fruit
name an advantage of renting a home versus owning one
name an activity thats hard to get through without losing your temper
name an activity thats more fun to do when its raining outside
name an activity that you might wear goggles while doing
name an activity that you must pass a test before doing
name an activity thatd be hard to do by candlelight
name an activity people commonly take up after retirement
name an activity people do hawaiian vacation
name an activity people used to do without knowing it was unhealty
name an activity kids do in the car that they can also do at home
name an activity nursing home residents look forward to
name an act of high school rebellion that you cant imagine a kindergartener doing
name an action movie star who does no stunts
name an activity for which people wear gloves
name a workplace whose employees must get used to dealing with stress
name an accessory you might be given on your first day working at a factory
name an acitivity that brings you very close to clouds
name a word thats used to describe attractive women but not attractive men
name a word used to describe someone whos funny
name a workplace where you would get used to stress
name a word that you always see on the cover of celebrity magazines
name a word that you might see before or after the word wax
name a word that means stop
name a word that means the same as coward
name a word that moms say to their children many times a day
name a word or phrase that has the word key in it
name a word that follows holy
name a word grooms say theyll do at the alter but probably never say after the wedding
name a word or expression that describes someone whos inexperienced
name a word or phrase that ends in phobia
name a weather condition that often causes traffic jams
name a website people often visit while they should be working
name a way you know your teacher is having a bad day
name a way you may show your boss that you are interested in them romantically
name a way to tell that your boss is about to start yelling
name a way tourists get around in a big city
name a way to recognize a tourist
name a way to remove hair if you can withstand the pain
name a way that you wouldnt want your future boss to find out about you
name a way to determine the age of the person on the other end of the phone
name a way to let someone know that you love them
name a way that you can tell a kids bedroom apart from their parents room
name a way that you can tell someone has been kissing
name a warning you hear on commercials for new drugs
name a way kids know that its time to stop playing and come home
name a way that a mans voice might change when talking to his love interest
name a valuable possession that you cant bring with you on a road trip
name a vegetable that isnt green
name a vehicle people drive that makes them feel like they own the road
name a us city with very aggressive drivers
name a us state whose residents say yall
name a us city thats known for a certain kind of music
name a us city thats on the ocean
name a typical holiday casserole
name a us city known for having great weather
name a type of tv show that you wouldnt want to see your grandma on
name a type of weather warning that might interrupt your tv show
name a type of work vehicle thats often seen as a childrens toy
name a type of stone youd never put in an engagement ring
name a type of tv commercial thats usually targeted at men
name a type of professional who could not get away with having dirty hands
name a type of restaurant where you might not be able to pronounce anything on the menu
name a type of shoe that most women own at least one pair of
name a type of sign that hangs from a door
name a type of product thats often advertised in magazines
name a type of professional that you seldom see joking around
name a type of product sold on tv infomercials
name a type of product that olympic athletes do commercials for
name a type of party where someone gets toasted
name a type of payment that a parking meter doesnt usually accept
name a type of place where you wouldnt want to be known as a regular
name a type of key that wouldnt help you get into your house
name a type of movie you would not want to watch alone
name a type of hat that you dont see many people wear in real life
name a type of insurance that employers dont provide
name a type of exercise for which people wear a specific type of outfit
name a type of footwear that you couldnt wear while bowling
name a type of glasses that you dont wear all the time
name a type of exercise class that would probably be attended by more females than males
name a type of doctor that wouldnt need to wear gloves
name a type of entertainment provided on a cruise ship
name a type of entertainment you can find out about in the newspaper
name a type of crisis that usually happens at least once in an action movie
name a type of critter that scares you when you find it in your house
name a type of candy that sounds like something youd dig up from the ground
name a type of cheese that almost everyone has eaten
name a type of clothing that comes with a matching top and bottom
name a type of company which does especially brisk business during the winter
name a type of belt thats not used to hold pants up
name a type of business that has a kids section
name a type of appointment a bride would have before her wedding
name a type of alarm most people have in their house
name a type of alcohol that can quickly catch up to you
name a type of animal that can be found on a cereal box
name a tv show past or present that has a womans name in the title
name a tv show with the word love in its title
name a tv show youd never want your name mentioned on
name a tv channel that people pay extra to get
name a traffic sign that you wouldnt see on the freeway
name a trait thats essential for a high school teacher to have
name a tool you would use on a potato
name a topic most men cant stand but many women could discuss for hours
name a topic shouldnt bring up in a job interview
name a time when even a grownup wants their mom
name a time when you exchange gifts
name a time when you should not send a text message to your love interest
name a test that people get very nervous about taking
name a texting phrase you may use with someone with whom you are romantically involved
name a time in history that seems the most romantic
name a time when a wife often chooses her husbands clothes for him
name a term that starts with the word final
name a term that youd look like a fool for not knowing while bowling
name a term youd expect a poker player to know
name a task that requires you to use a ladder
name a term for little boy that a very old person might use
name a term or phrase with the word horse in it
name a summer job a teenager would have to get training for
name a symbol associated with the 1960s
name a talent you wish you were better at
name a stereotype about teenagers thats often untrue
name a subject that often comes up in family feud questions
name a substance of which animals make homes
name a sports uniform that many men look sexy in
name a spot on the body that you like massaged after a long day
name a state that many people live in when they retire
name a state that youd hate to live in during summer
name a sport thats thought of as sophisticated
name a sport where most of the athletes face is covered by a mask or a helmet
name a sport whose athletes youd least like to get in a fight with
name a sport you cant compete in while wearing shoes
name a sport that you could play in sandals
name a sport that you dont usually see small people playing
name a sport that you wouldnt play without protective equipment
name a sport that youre likely to get cold while watching
name a sport that might be played at a family reunion
name a sport that parents would worry about their child participating in
name a sport that you can still play when youre out of shape
name a sport shaquille oneal look ridiculous competing in
name a sport that does not have the word ball in it
name a sport that doesnt require a lot of equipment
name a specific task restaurant staff does for you that youd be surprised to get charged extra for
name a specific type of product you often see pro athletes selling
name a spooky place that people might visit around halloween
name a sport associated with senior citizens
name a specific reason youd get fired from your job as a zookeeper
name a specific rule that kids might try to fool their babysitter about
name a specific sign of affection that a woman would like to get more often from her husband
name a specific person youd ask to help you move if you were in a jam
name a specific reason co worker drinks after work
name a specific reason why a person gets a dog
name a specific reason why youd give your waitress a lousy tip
name a specific night of the year that you hope to be kissed
name a specific object on which you might see the word caution
name a specific part of the body that people try to tone by working out
name a specific food that youd never put in the microwave without covering it
name a specific item in your house thats too big to throw away in the trash can
name a specific expense that youd save on if you didnt have any kids
name a specific food that someone with high cholesterol might give up
name a specific complaint that many people have about their bosses
name a sound that youd often hear if you lived next to an amusement park
name a sour fruit that few people would eat whole
name a souvenir people collect that has a citys name on it
name a specific article of clothing that often comes in itchy fabric
name a small space where you feel compelled to make small talk with a stranger
name a song that has the word christmas in the title
name a sound that you might hear in the background of a scary movie
name a slang term for a car
name a slender animal that wouldnt make a very good piggy bank
name a slow moving vehicle that you hate to get stuck behind
name a small kitchen appliance that a bachelor might not have
name a skill a cowboy would put on his resume that wouldnt apply to your job
name a skill kids are taught so that theyre able to make friends
name a skill that a persons resume might claim theyre better at than they really are
name a skill thats more important for teens to learn today than previously
name a sign youre at a really cheap birthday party
name a singer who inspires romance
name a situation when its better to ride a bike than take a taxi
name a sign of aging that some people consider attractive
name a sign the man youre dating is a caveman
name a section you see in most greeting card stores
name a section youd see at a book store
name a service that used to be just for humans but people now get for their dogs too
name a shakespeare character who most people have heard of
name a school subject that people often become bad at in adulthood
name a section thats listed on most restaurant menus
name a salutation that you wouldnt use to end a letter to your significant other
name a sandwich you can find in most delis
name a rule thats often posted near a swimming pool
name a rule thats posted outside of many parks
name a safety device that older cars didnt have
name a salty food thats hard to stop eating once you start
name a room buyers inspect most closely when touring a house
name a room in your house thats only clean when you know companys coming
name a room in your house where it is unnecessary to have a tv
name a reason youd stay inside on a saturday
name a relationship move that even a strong woman might wait for her partner to make first
name a requirement for someone who wants to be in a boy band
name a reason you might dread going to a new years party at a club
name a reason you might take a childs halloween candy away
name a reason you would not want to live on a houseboat
name a reason you would want to avoid a friend
name a reason you may get a tattoo removed
name a reason you may leave a blind date without even saying goodbye
name a reason you may quickly go on an unscheduled vacation
name a reason you might be driving more cautiously than normal
name a reason why your partner calls you at work
name a reason you may dread going to your childs parent teacher conference
name a reason why youd check out of a hotel early
name a reason why your kids teacher might call from school
name a reason why you wouldnt enter an eating contest
name a reason why you wouldnt recognize someone at your high school reunion
name a reason why you wouldnt want a soap opera character for your best friend
name a reason why you might suspect that your blind date is actually a robot
name a reason why you would buy a convertible
name a reason why you wouldnt answer your door
name a reason why you might return the sweater you got for christmas
name a reason why you might run out of candy before trick or treat has ended
name a reason why you might skip lunch
name a reason why you might stay in a hotel in your own city
name a reason why you might not get a good night of sleep while staying at someone elses house
name a reason why you might not like a photo of yourself
name a reason why you dont answer the phone when youre home
name a reason why you might be forbidden to ride a roller coaster
name a reason why you might be stuck in the house all day
name a reason why you might get introduced to many people at once
name a reason why someone might not get their hair cut
name a reason why someone might send you flowers
name a reason why workers might go on strike
name a reason why people dread going to the dmv
name a reason why people move to california
name a reason why people return something theyve bought
name a reason why someone might avoid their high school reunion
name a reason why its hard to slow dance with a ghost
name a reason why its hard to talk to an attractive person
name a reason why most store bought cakes arent as good as homemade
name a reason why parents want to find out the sex of their baby
name a reason why employees might get to go home early
name a reason why its good to live near your in laws
name a reason why a workplace might not have their annual christmas party
name a reason why another driver may flash their headlights at you
name a reason why a person might prefer to own a dog over a cat
name a reason why a restaurant might have a very long wait
name a reason why a woman wouldnt change her last name after marrying
name a reason why a mail carrier might refuse to deliver to someones house
name a reason why a man might not want his wife to have a girls night out
name a reason why a partys host might ask a guest to leave
name a reason why a child might not want to have a long last name
name a reason why a child you dont know might come to your door
name a reason why a kid might not trick or treat
name a reason other than hard work that your boss would give you a raise
name a reason why a boss calls an employee into his office
name a reason why a child may not want to give a valentine to another child
name a reason a model may be told not to smile
name a reason a person might get rid of a pet
name a reason a young boy would quickly adopt a nickname
name a reason a college student would stay with their parents for the weekend instead of their own dorm room
name a reason a couple may keep a close watch on a calendar
name a reason a couple might not want to have kids
name a real life person whos famous for something courageous they did
name a real occupation a little kid might idolize like a superhero
name a reason a college student might not finish school
name a question a taxi driver must hear a lot
name a question that would be rude to ask a stranger
name a question your server usually asks at least once at a restaurant
name a quality people look for in their favorite news anchor
name a quality thats important in a friend and even more important in a spouse
name a public place where youd expect married couples to show affection
name a public place where youre likely to catch a cold or flu bug
name a public place where there is often a line for the bathroom
name a public place where towels are provided
name a public place that you can almost never park right in front of
name a public place where it would be easy to fall asleep
name a public place where it would be least romantic to propose
name a professional football team thats named for an animal
name a professional who you hate to call because the bill is always expensive
name a professional you may come in contact with but should never flirt with
name a profession where youd often say good job to someone
name a profession youd shoot for if you wanted to be famous
name a profession where you can lay down on the job
name a profession where you talk to strangers all day
name a profession where youd have to smile a lot
name a profession that would help you be good at solving crossword puzzles
name a profession that would make women think twice about marrying
name a profession that youre careful to treat with respect
name a profession in which a man might go by a title other than mr
name a profession in which you might drive a van
name a print youd find on a womans dress but not on a countrys flag
name a prize that you might win from a carnival game
name a pro sports team thats named for a bird
name a popular topic of a blog aimed at women
name a present that a woman probably wouldnt appreciate receiving from her husband
name a print people wear on clothing but you would hate as wallpaper
name a place youd get a dirty look for falling asleep
name a place youd visit more often if it wasnt so crowded there
name a popular pickup line
name a place youd expect even a tough guy to be crying
name a place youd expect to get your hair wet but not the rest of your body
name a place youd expect to go if former us president bill clinton took you out on a date
name a place with a drive thru
name a place you visit where you arent allowed to touch anything
name a place you wouldnt want to be alone at night
name a place where youd hide your mess if company arrived unexpectedly
name a place where youd least expect to see a superhero
name a place where youre asked to turn off your cell phone
name a place where youd find lots of celebrities in one room
name a place where youd hate to be in line on the day before thanksgiving
name a place where youd hate to get a case of the giggles
name a place where youd be mortified if your cell phone went off
name a place where youd find colorful neon lights
name a place where you wish people wouldnt answer their cell phones
name a place where you would see lots of beautiful women
name a place where you might end up dancing with a stranger
name a place where you rush to if youre late
name a place where you take a number before being served
name a place where you might be asked whether youre married
name a place where you might be given a ticket
name a place where you might be waited on hand and foot
name a place where you get antsy from sitting too long
name a place where you get very thirsty
name a place where you hate to see litter
name a place where you end up spending more money than planned
name a place where you find yourself watching the clock
name a place where theres often a line for the womens restroom
name a place where they should have public bathrooms but dont
name a place where you dont want front row seats
name a place where people hope not to have a baby seated near them
name a place where people lay out to get a suntan
name a place where school children often go for field trips
name a place where the average person wouldnt last a day
name a place where people 50 years ago dressed up to go but people today dress casually for
name a place where people always seem to have to cram into
name a place where people are afraid to go for the first time
name a place where many kids have their birthday parties
name a place where many people would feel uncomfortable going without a date
name a place where once you enter you cant leave right away
name a place where its okay to be loud
name a place where kids are instructed to sit still
name a place where kids ask their parents how much longer
name a place where a woman might not want her partner to spend too much time
name a place where it would be strange to go if you didnt have kids
name a place where itd be smart for a lawyer to advertise
name a place where a child might get separated from her parents
name a place where a couple is expected to kiss
name a place where a mom might go when she says i need peace and quiet
name a place that only the worlds dumbest thief would try to rob
name a place that you wouldnt want to go after having a few to drink
name a place thats meant for kids but adults love it too
name a place people might go for peace and quiet
name a place that a teenager might try to sneak into
name a place that almost no parent would forbid their child from going
name a place that never closes
name a place on the body that women tattoo but men usually dont
name a place on your body that might be sore after a day of shoveling
name a place on your body that you cant scratch when it itches
name a place on your tax form where youd better not make a typo
name a place in the house where only a real tv lover would put a televison
name a place in your car that you are likely to find something thats gone missing
name a place in your house that you would not show a first date
name a place it would be strange to go if you didnt have kids
name a piece of information youd be surprised to find on someones business card
name a piece of information youd include in personals ad
name a piece of personal information that youd never list on facebook
name a place from which you wouldnt want to drink the water
name a piece of furniture thats too big to fit in a vw bug
name a piece of info on your drivers license that changes by the time you get it renewed
name a piece of information listed on a baseball scoreboard
name a piece of information that may be revealed on someones coffee mug
name a piece of clothing youd see in romeo and juliet
name a piece of equipment many bikers dont use but ought to
name a piece of exercise clothing that people wear outside the gym
name a piece of exercise equipment that you might find in someones house
name a person who wears a black and white uniform
name a person who youd never trust to set you up on a blind date
name a pet some people have that youd be too afraid to own
name a phrase that ends with the word dating
name a physical sign of aging that many peopl work hard to prevent
name a perfect job for somebody who wants to spend all day on a golf course
name a perk that would make you accept a job despite a lower salary
name a person in their life who many young boys have a crush on
name a person who might look deep into your eyes
name a part of the body that starts to ache when you get old
name a part of your body that feels stuffed up when you have a cold
name a pastime more respectable than watching tv
name a pastime youd know someone has just by looking at their shoes
name a part of a dolls body that might be movable
name a part of a magazine that you dont read
name a part of good manners that you follow at a restaurant but not at home
name a part of table manners that most people learn from their parents
name a nuisance most people have to deal with if they work downtown
name a number in a womans life that youre not supposed to ask about
name a number thats associated with being lucky or unlucky
name a painful procedure that a woman might do for the sake of beauty
name a part of a body people moisturize
name a noise in the house that can keep you up when youre trying to sleep
name a noise your neighbor might complain about if you were hosting a new years party
name a non edible item that people have in their freezers
name a non living thing that is made to look like a human and often clothed
name a movie or tv show about gangsters
name a movie or tv show that has the word diary diaries in the title
name a musical instrument thats difficult to play
name a mode of transportation that is hard to use while caring for children
name a month in which you have an expensive heating bill
name a morning stop that many adults make first before going on to work
name a movie based on a tv show or skit
name a meal youd never serve at a fancy party
name a messy food that you can tell a kid has been eating
name a millionaire who could never be rich enough to make you want to date him
name a mistake youve made in your life that you are determined never to make again
name a male comedian past or present known funny monologues
name a man from history that you consider hot enough to time travel back to be with
name a material thats often used in sexy clothing
name a meal that doesnt cost much
name a liquid that youd never take a sip of
name a magazine or tabloid headlines you dont always believe
name a magazine you see at supermarket checkoutstands
name a kind of pants you cant wear to work
name a kitchen item that might be used to make lava in a volcano model
name a language spoken in europe
name a less interesting part of the job that the tv show cops probably doesnt show
name a kids toy your parents might have played with thats still around
name a kind of doctor
name a kind of drink you wouldnt want to have spilled on you
name a johnny depp movie that most everyone has seen
name a keepsake that people put in their babys scrapbook
name a kids game a grown man would look pretty silly playing
name a kids movie that most adults have seen too
name a job you should never apply for if you dont like waking up early
name a job you would only do at night
name a job youd suspect a muscular person might have
name a job which might require someone to work on christmas
name a job you might have if you worked at disneyworld
name a job you need a license for
name a job that gets more work in winter
name a job that requires you to knock on a strangers door
name a job that youd want your husband to have just for the sexy uniform
name a job where you wouldnt take your work home
name a job in which youd stand in one place all day
name a job that a man might get just to be surrounded by female co workers
name a job that a robot wouldnt be entertaining enough to do
name a job in which youd be exposed to a lot of germs
name a job in which youd be on your feet all day
name a job in which youd have an easy time getting dates
name a household item that can be used as a musical instrument
name a human food that many zoo animals eat
name a hygiene product that you hope your office mate uses every day
name a job aquaman could do if he couldnt be a superhero anymore
name a house pet that you wouldnt let sleep at the end of your bed
name a household activity that people wear gloves while doing
name a household chore that a kid would find fun but an adult would put off
name a household chore that you do less frequently because its barely noticeable when its done
name a hobby whose participants are also called geeks
name a holiday food people plan to avoid but end up eating anyway
name a holiday no one cares about
name a hollywood man who would have no trouble getting dates if he were single
name a hobby that only the very wealthy take up
name a hobby that some people can make a job out of
name a hobby that would make a person go broke quickly
name a hobby that you wouldnt expect a vegetarian to have
name a hidden cost when buying a car
name a highly respected occupation that deserves a higher salary than they earn
name a hobby better suited for country living than city living
name a hobby or activity in which youd love to get lessons from a pro
name a halloween costume people wear if they dont want to go all out
name a halloween costume that young girls often wear
name a halloween costume you see on babies but rarely see on their parents
name a healthy choice that young people may put off til theyre older
name a good topping for waffles
name a grocery store item that you buy by weight
name a hair color that isnt natural
name a halloween costume adults wear to look sexy
name a good excuse for being caught talking under your breath
name a good job for someone who asks a lot of questions
name a good place to people watch
name a good place to put your hands while kissing someone
name a gift thats great to give to children if you dont live with them
name a gift you might buy if youre a secret santa
name a good day job for a magician
name a garment youd probably find in the dressing room for a pro wrestling event
name a genre you find in the video store
name a gift that adults often give to each other that would be weird to give a kid
name a function you have on your telephone that your child doesnt have on their tin can phone
name a gag store item that a jokester should leave home on a first date
name a game show that has been around forever
name a game that requires you to psych someone out in order to win
name a fruit that you usually find in a fruit salad
name a fruit that you wouldnt want to carry home from the grocery store
name a fruit thats always expensive
name a fruit thats often served in a bowl
name a fruit that changes color as it ripens
name a fruit that people might add to jell o
name a fruit that you squeeze to see if its ripe
name a food you eat when youre sick that isnt very filling
name a food you would never see in a vending machine
name a foreign language a large corporation may require its employees to learn
name a food you can cook without the recipe
name a food you cook for which you dont need to read a recipe
name a food thats even better when paired with chocolate
name a food thats hard to eat without making a mess
name a food thats often sold in a mall food court
name a food thats on the menu of almost any restaurant
name a food that you wish was healthy so you could eat it every day
name a food that youd never eat with your bare hands
name a food thats associated with romance
name a food thats baked in the oven but cant be cooked in the microwave
name a food that would be disgusting to be fed romantically
name a food that would be hard to eat if you were missing your 2 front teeth
name a food that you can buy either frozen or not
name a food that you keep in the house for a night when you dont feel like cooking
name a food that you like to eat on a very hot day
name a food that someone might use more than one hand to eat
name a food that tastes better when its grilled
name a food that usually tastes so so but tastes fantastic once fried
name a food that goes well with ketchup
name a food that is better with ketchup on it
name a food that kids eat more of than adults
name a food that people get fed in romantic situations
name a food that comes in a shell
name a food that comes in a sugar free variety
name a food that doesnt need to be refrigerated
name a food that dogs love just as much as humans do
name a food that a parent might hide their childs pill in to get them to swallow it
name a food that appears on the kids menu of most restaurants
name a food that can be lumpy
name a food or drink that makes a sound the first time its container is opened
name a food or drink you can usually still consume a few days after its expiration date
name a food someone might use more than one hand to eat
name a float you might see at the macys thanksgiving day parade
name a food or beverage that you wouldnt consume after itd been sitting out in hot weather
name a food or drink that can be eaten either hot or cold
name a feature that an executives fancy office must have
name a fierce animal that is trained and tame at the circus
name a figure of speech people use to describe what their heart is doing
name a fish that is canned
name a flavorr that kids toothpaste comes in but adults doesnt
name a feature of most parades that frightens children
name a feature of some cars that youd be surprised to find inside a bus
name a feature people like to have in a master bedroom
name a famous robert who many women consider handsome
name a famous tv show or movie that features a vampire
name a famous woman who speaks with an accent to americans
name a fast food restaurant people would recognize by their sign
name a fear parents have for their child when she moves out of the house
name a famous doctor you wouldnt want as your physician
name a famous gospel singer
name a famous marilyn monroe wannabe
name a famous person who is known for the way their mouth looks
name a famous building thats big enough to house a dinosaur
name a famous comedian who loves to use filthy language
name a famous criminal twosome
name a drink or food that can be eaten either hot or cold
name a drink thats sometimes given out free at restaurants
name a drink you get at a cafe that most people cont make at home
name a fairy tale character who makes an appearance in shrek
name a department youd find at a home improvement store
name a dessert thats not baked
name a dessert you might not serve at a fancy dinner party
name a daily activity thatd be hard to do if you broke your arm
name a day of the week when you get the most work done
name a day of the year that some people dont want to spend alone
name a decision that people dont make lightly
name a country with a large population
name a creature that has a shell
name a crime that some people probably commit every day
name a cuddly animal
name a culture or religion that celebrates a different new year than the west
name a country american kids visit in the hope of getting lucky while they are in college
name a country known for having beautiful weather
name a country thats always pictured with green rolling hills
name a complaint people have about shoes with laces
name a complaint someone might have about camping
name a cosmetic brand that you bet was named after a real person
name a costume that would not make you popular at a halloween party
name a complaint a circus clown might have about his job
name a complaint a customer might have about a bar theyre at
name a complaint a customer might have about their hotel room
name a complaint people have about late night tv
name a college major that might be useless when looking for a job
name a color most people wouldnt want to paint their house
name a color thats usually included in packs of fruit flavored candy
name a comedian who probably doesnt write their own jokes
name a class that most students take in college but not high school
name a clothing item that takes up too much space in your closet
name a coffee drink people order while theyre out but cant make at home
name a coffee drink thats easy to mispronounce
name a chore that people may dance while doing
name a christmas item so tacky even mrs claus wouldnt wear it
name a city that starts with san
name a class offered at gyms now that wasnt offered 20 years ago
name a characteristic of childrens cereal that adults are less interested in
name a childhood fear that many people never outgrow
name a childrens character whos associated with being small
name a chore people had to do during colonial times that we dont do any more
name a celebrity who was proven not guilty but probably is
name a celebrity who youre pretty sure has had plastic surgery
name a celebrity whos so handsome he could make a santa suit look sexy
name a celebrity whose records you might see at a country music museum
name a cartoon character thats been around forever
name a cartoon character who would never be chosen to narrate a documentary
name a celebrity from decades ago whos still thought of as a style icon
name a brand of jeans that most people know
name a breakfast food thats hard to cook just right
name a breakfast food thats not really food until its cooked
name a car part that most gas stations keep in stock
name a body part that gets clothed in winter but stays naked all summer
name a bowl that you dont eat from
name a brand of car that youd expect a wealthy person to drive
name a bird you would never think of eating
name a bird you wouldnt want to eat
name a birthday party game that requires music
name a board game that takes a long time to play
name a beverage that youd like to see sold in vending machines
name a beverage youd never serve to frosty the snowman
name a big expense that some parents plan for years in advance
name a bird that cant fly
name a beverage people often have with brunch
name a beverage that is clear or almost clear in color
name a beverage that people often carry around with them
name a beverage that you wouldnt drink right before bed
name a bad habit associated more with men than with women
name a bad job for someone whos accident prone
name a beauty secret for aging gracefully
many hunters wear camouflage in the woods name a pattern youd be surprised to see a hunter wear
married people only how many guests did you invite to your wedding numeric only please
name a 2 word phrase that includes the word secret
name a baby item that you wouldnt want to buy from a rummage sale
its said that theres a 7 year itch after how many years do you think the itch really comes
its said there is a seven year itch after how many years do you think the itch really comes
like a colored easter egg which holiday is fun to have when its fresh but not fun to find months later
living or dead name a man named ted
instead of courage or a brain what quality would you ask the wizard of oz for
instead of getting a job name something a person might do after college
instead of magazines name something you wish your dentists waiting room had
instead of money what might santa give his reindeer as pay
in which sport is an athlete most likely to break a leg
instead of a fish name something you accidentally catch while fishing
instead of a schoolbus how might a wealthy kid get to school
instead of a veil what type of headwear would you be surprise to see on a brides head
in the store name a product that you might choose because its soft
in which cities do most movies take place
in which job would a single person have an easy time getting dates
in which occupations might you take care of someone
in which profession are you most likely to find lots of people with tattoos
in movies name an occupation thats almost always played by men
in one word whats the best thing about being married
in the movies name a specific place a damsel in distress might get trapped or face danger
if youre serious about camping name something you leave at home
in minutes how long is your commute to work
in minutes how much time do you spend in front of the mirror each morning
if your neighbor was really nosey name something she wouldnt want you to put up at your house
if your pizza was delivered very late what would you expect in order to make up for it
if your taking a hawaiian vacation name something youd need to buy before you go
if your work wanted people to stick around the office more what should they bring in
if youre driving in the middle of nowhere what animal might you see crossing the street
if your cat went on strike name something he might demand before returning to work as your pet
if your company was saving money name something that might not be at the holiday party
if your husband could get one quality from james bond what would you want it to be
if you were out of town and forgot to pack a change of clothes what would you do
if you were stranded on an island name something you might do to get the attention of a search plane
if your blind date walked in and you didnt feel a spark what would you do
if your boss finds you sleeping on the job what excuse might you give for having your closed eyes
if your boss was ebenezer scrooge name something you wouldnt dare ask for around the holidays
if you were forming a relay race team which animals would you choose for teammates
if you were in jail who would you call to bail you out
if you were married to a pirate what might you often receive for a gift
if you were on vacation in london what would be on the postcard you sent home
if you were an earth tour guide which landmarks would you show to an alien
if you were creating the perfect small town name a type of business youd probably have at least one of
if you were dating someone 10 years younger name something specific you might have more experience with
if you want to read a book without paying for it where might you spend too much time
if you wanted to see your date in less clothing where might you take them
if you went on a camping trip by yourself what might you spend the week doing
if you requested a hamburger through a garbled drivethru speaker what might you end up with instead
if you see pink frosting on a cake what flavor would you expect it to be
if you sent a postcard from china what would be pictured on the front
if you took a class called cooking 101 name something youd probably learn how to make
if you met the real life prince charming how would you know it was him
if you moved to los angeles what would be the first thing youd have to get used to
if you order pasta at a restaurant what do you assume it will come with
if you ordered a pizza with the works name a topping that youd expect
if you lived in soap opera land name something that would happen a lot more often
if you lived on sesame street which character would get on your nerves
if you lived with a bodybuilder name a word youd often hear around the house
if you loan a car to a friend name something you hope they dont do
if you live in a city name ways to get to work
if you live in the country name a type of lights that you dont see at night
if you lived in cartoon land who would you least like to have as your neighbor
if you lived in fairy tale land name someone you might run into at the grocery
if you had to live at the zoo what type of animal would be the easiest to have as your roommate
if you had to live in a department store which department would be best to live in
if you got stuck in the desert what would you want to have with you
if you got to be fearless for one day name the first thing youd try
if you had to be locked inside a building for a year which place would you want it to be
if you had to go into the witness protection program name something youd do to disguise yourself
if you dyed your hair what color would you hate for it to turn out
if you forgot your dates name what might you call them instead
if you got a new puppy name something youd teach it
if you could pick a comic book super power what would it be
if you didnt have to work name something youd spend your life doing
if you dont look like cindy crawford what clothing item might you still be able to model
if you commuted to work by jet pack name something dangerous that could happen be specific
if you could choose what would be an ideal place to meet your mate
if you could choose your neighbors which traits would you look for
if you could describe yourself as a shape name the shape you would be
if there were no clean plates what might you eat over
if theres a blizzard outside whats the best thing to spend the day inside with
if you ate at a roadkill restaurant what would you likely find on the menu
if you became a millionaire which job around the house would you hire a professional to do
if there was a school for training rock stars who might be the principal
if there was a waitressing 101 class what should every waitress learn not to do
if there was no speed limit how fast would you drive on the way to work each morning
if stuck with not diapers what might a desperate parent use instead
if students ran schools name some things they would probably get rid of
if there was a gourmet cafe for dogs which coffee flavors would likely be on the menu
if there was a school for beauty queens name a skill that would be taught there
if someone has taken their karaoke hobby too far what might they begin doing
if someone looks like your spouse from faraway what do you look at to be sure that its himher
if something is made of glass what words might be written on the sign next to it
if santa claus had a christmas party name someone he might invite
if santa retired which of his possesions might he sell
if santa showed up at your work holiday party what might your co workers request for christmas
if someone didnt trust the bank where might they hide their cash
if cinderella went to a therapist what might she complain about
if money isnt an object who do people hire to help make their life easier
if one of the 3 stooges got married what action might replace a kiss at the altar
if paris hilton went trick or treating what might she request instead of candy
if adults had fights like toddlers do what might your spouse do the next time you disagreed
if an alien gave you a guided tour of outer space what would be must see stops
if an alien landed at christmas time name a christmas tradition that would be hard to explain
if an auctioneer had a baby what might be her first words
if an elvis impersonator had a rummage sale what would you expect to find there
if a skeleton went trick or treating what might he request instead of candy
if a woman had a mid life crisis what might she do
if a woman had a wish list for what she wants in a partner what might be on it
if a wrestler had a garage sale name something youd find there
if a mouse pad were a place where bachelor mice lived what would you likely find inside
if a person doesnt cook well which thanksgiving food might they buy instead of bake
if a person is raised on a farm name something you expect them to be better at
if a man had a very full beard what part of his face might be invisible
if a man is trying to get a date with a woman what might he do in order to woo her
if a mannequin could speak what complaint might they make about their job
how old were you when you had your first real crush
if a fashion designer were inspired by football players what new style might they encourage
if a group of senior citizens formed a punk rock band what might their songs bark about
how much do you think a wedding should cost number only please
how much does the average supermodel weigh
how old were you when you babysat for the first time
how many times a day does a mother change her newborn babys diaper
how many women does an average single man ask out before one says yes
how much do you expect to spend if youre taking a date out for a nice dinner please round to nearest $10
how long do you usually wait in a doctors waiting room
how many dates should you go on before kissing someone
how many hours of sleep does the average person need in order to wake up refreshed
how many pairs of pants does the average man own
how could you recognize a figure skater off the ice
how do teachers mnake sure parents find out that their kid failed a test
how do you know that youre tuned into a country radio station
how do you know without doubt that your jeans are too small
how can you tell the person youre talking to is not interested in listening
how can you tell the show youre watching is made for kids
how can you tell that a family member has picked up a phone to eavesdrop on your call
how can you tell that somebody just got back from a camping trip
how can you tell that the person next to you is a nervous flyer
how can you identify someone who really loves the super bowl
how can you identify the bad guy in a movie even before he does anything wrong
how can you let your partner know that youre thinking of them when youre out of town
how can you tell somebody is angry at you from their text messages
he may forget their anniversary but name something a man would never forget about his wife
how can you identify a pizza delivery car
for which items do people wait in long lines to purchase at the holidays
give a reason a person would be afraid to change careers
finish this sentence since i got married i have more_____
fireworks promote weddings birthdays and other joyous occasions but for which life event would it be inappropriate to set off fireworks
for what reason might a store refuse to refund your christmas gift
for which holidays do you eat too much
during your morning routine name something youd hate to discover wasnt working
even as an adult name something youve asked for your dads advie on
even though its a beautiful place to visit name a reason why you might not want to live in hawaii
finish this sentence my greatest success in my life is my ____
despite its beauty name a reason why you wouldnt want to live in hawaii
during an argument what might a teen do that makes their parents really angry
by what method might a woman make the announcement that shes pregnant
complete the sentence my spouse married me for my____
complete this sentence id never date someone who had bad ___________
besides throwing them away name something you can do with old newspapers
besides watching it name something people do in front of the television
besides swimming name something people do to stay cool in the summer
besides the blade name something youd find on a swiss army knife
besides jelly what else goes well with peanut butter
besides music name something you might hear on a morning radio show
besides phone number name a set of numbers that most people must remember
besides go on rides name something people do at disneyland
besides ice cream and popsicles name something you need to be a neighborhood ice cream man
besides ice cream name a food that can be scooped
besides family feud name a tv show with family in its title
besides food name something you buy at a supermarket
besides gamble name something people do in las vegas
besides an office name a place you can find a copy machine
besides curtains name something a college student uses to cover a window
besides dishes and utensils what else do you need to host a fancy dinner party
besides a horse which animal is used for transportation
besides a loaf of bread name something you might buy in the bread section of the supermarket
besides a professional cyclist name a job that involves riding a bicycle
besides alcohol drugs or tobacco name something that people get addicted to
before a part time job name a way that kids earn money
before cds what did people listen to music on
before visiting a new city name something for which you might get a recommendation
before you see any fighting how do you know youre watching a kung fu movie
being in hot water is one way of saying youre in trouble name another
at what age might a man have a midlifecrisis
at what place would you not want to be seated next to someone with an annoying laugh
at which place would it be most embarrassing to have your date wear sweat pants
at your physical name something you dont want the doctor to say is high
at what age do many people stop looking forward to their birthdays
at what age do people usually learn to play their first musical instrument
at what age is it ok for a child to walk home from school by themselves
at a public pool what might you pay extra to rent
at a restaurant what do customers do while waiting for a table to open
at a rock concert name something people do when a song is over
at a spookhouse what do you do to make the experience less scary
aside from other movie stars name a common profession for movie star spouses
at a bar how can you tell that someone is interested in you
at a movie theater name something you hope your date doesnt do
at a nightclub name something you wouldnt want to be doing when the music suddenly stopped
at a party where you dont know anyone how might you pass the time
after overeating during the holidays name the first place where you gain weight
after too much time together what one thing can get on your nerves about your partner
as newlyweds name something you and your spouse disagreed about how to do
aside from animals name something people hunt for
after getting all dressed up name a place youd hate to find that your date was taking you
after getting pulled over what might a driver do that makes the cops really angry
after having kids name something that happens that interrupts a couples alone time at night
about what topic do couples most often fight
after a cop pulls you over what might you do to try and avoid a ticket
after a date name a reason why you might not call the person right away
after a family dinner name something your family might stay up late doing
We asked 100 women to answer this sentence: "I judge a man by how he takes care of his ___"
Name a star whose movies you'll go see no matter how bad the reviews are.
As a man gets older, name a part of his body that seems to get more hair.
Name something a fireman keeps with him at all times.
Name something you think of when you hear the word "boxers".
At what place might a celebrity get special treatment?
Name a type of person who carries a sword.
Name a place some men have hair on their bodies that others don't.
Name a cartoon with big ears.
Name something associated with the state of Alaska.
Name a place that begins with the word "South".
When it comes to raising kids, what's the one thing you need the most of?
Name a person you don't necessarily like, but are obliged to get along with.
Name a movie that starred Denzel Washington.
Name an animal that spends as much time in the water as on land.
Name something that might be cancelled because of cold weather.
Name a pet that isn't much work, but also isn't much fun.
Name something every teacher needs.
Fill in the blank: It's hard to find a good _______.
Name something a friend has that they brag is better than yours.
Name an occasion when a women might be especially nervous and excited.
We asked 100 men: If we had a women president, what do you think she'd spend most of our tax dollars on?
Name a job that, for one reason or another, would be too hard for you.
Name a women who's not afraid to say what she thinks.
Tell me something you'd hate to find on the end of your nose.
Name something cars have today that they didn't have 50 years ago.
Name something you might put in your backyard to decorate if you were having a beach theme party.
Name something a person might buy to go with their swimming pool.
Name something you might see someone doing on the side of a road.
Name something people do to "get smart".
Name something someone does to keep from laughing.
Name your one possession that gives you the most hours of enjoyment.
Name a place you see men crying.
Name someone who usually wears a cape.
Name an office responsibility that bosses consider to be "beneath" them.
Give me a two word expression that starts with the word "Love".
Name something at home that people might trip over.
Name something that people get removed from their body.
Name something you measure with.
What breed of dog might be called "Precious"?
Besides clothes, name something that has a zipper.
Name a place where it's important for children to sit still.
Name an occupation whose members you hope are smarter than you.
Tell me a food that starts with the letter "L".
Name something about a man that might make other men jealous.
Besides a napkin, name something a person uses to wipe their mouth with.
Name something you might strap down if you live in earthquake country.
Name something people think is a man's job.
Name a kind of place where you're treated more like a number than like a human being.
Name something that only happens once every 4 years.
We asked 100 single women: Tell me something you have that has lasted longer than most of your relationships.
Name a place where shoplifters stash the goods, until they're out of the store.
Name a place where you're sometimes bothered by the person sitting behind you.
Name an actress or actor today that would be perfect to star in a remake of "Psycho".
Name something a child might do right before bed.
We asked 100 men... Name an actress whose affection would have you jumping on Oprah's couch too!
Past or present, name any famous western movie star.
Name something the oldest child gets more of than the other kids in the family.
Name something you double-check before you go to bed.
Name another word for motion picture.
Beside people, name something you'd try to save if your house was on fire.
Besides a mattress, name something people sleep on.
We asked 100 women: Name an animal some men look like when they dance.
Name something you'd be very excited about spotting in the ocean.
Name a sport where the fans might yell "Crush 'em!".
Name America's most famous department stores.
Name something that might take a nosedive.
Name something most burglars never steal during a home robbery.
Name a musical instrument that's difficult to play.
Name something that starts with the word "snow".
Name a famous person who died in a place crash.
Name something you reach for when the toilet overflows.
Name a phrase that starts with "Follow the _______".
Name something you might do if you found out your house was haunted.
Name a kind of store a woman should spend time in if she wants to meet a man.
Name a happy event that can also be stressful.
Name a famous person, living or dead, whose last name is "Collins".
Name a song by Madonna that everyone knows.
We asked 100 men: Name something you don't do today, if you can put it off until tomorrow.
Name a type of structure that is sometimes named after dead people.
Name something a cheerleader has lots of.
Name a word that rhymes with "first".
Name a part of the average person's body that weighs 3 pounds.
Name the only thing you need to make your dog happy.
Name something you'd expect to see in psychiatrist's office.
Name someone who wears white clothes.
Name an occupation where theres no sitting down on the job.
Name a reason people give to their bosses, when they ask for a raise.
Name something that for safety's sake, everyone should know how to do.
Name something men say they hate to give when they get married.
Name something associated with "David Hasselhoff".
Name a famous "Jerry".
Name an activity that people wear gloves for.
Name a fruit that's messy when you eat it.
Name a type of vehicle where you usually sit in the back.
Name someone who wears white gloves.
Name a way people get rid of mice.
Besides skis, name something people use on a ski slope?
Name something that's rude to cancel at the last minute.
Name something that most American people would die for.
Name something you waste.
Name something you might do on a cruise ship that you can't do on a submarine.
Name something Miss America probably takes off her tiara to do.
Name kid's game that a grown man would look pretty silly playing.
Name an occasion when people take a lot of pictures.
Besides a chicken, name a creature that lays eggs.
Name an occupation many women fantasize about having.
Fill in the blank: A women should not judge a man by his _______.
Name something people eat with chili.
Name something people dislik about a sleeper sofa.
Name a word that ends with "scope."
If you made a Zoro doll, name something it might come with.
Name a reason a husband might send his wife flowers.
Name a city in Florida.
According to men: Name something a women would have a hard time going a whole week without doing.
Name something a married couple saves from their wedding day.
Name the most difficult part of learning to drive.
Name something you might find on a miniature golf course.
Name something who is famous for being a chef.
Name a city in Canada everyone has heard of.
Name something in your car you can control with a push of a button.
Name a country that belongs with the letter "S."
Name something you might see in the jungle.
Name something that might be stuffed inside a ravioli. ("Meat" is not a answer. Be more specific.)
Name a gift for a friend who travels a lot.
Name something an artist uses.
Name something that starts with "the gift of _______."
Who is a celebrity you would most hate to sit next to on a long flight?
Tell me a boy's name that starts with the letter "M."
Name a part of a women's body that men prefer to be small.
Name a kind of muffin.
Name a U.S. city that begins with the letter "L."
Name a good food to throw in a food fight.
Name something you might cut out of your morning routine if you were in a big hurry.
Name something people put in their yards to attract birds.
Name something they give away free to attract fans at a baseball game.
Name something a women might keep in her purse.
According to single men: What is the one thing you might want to know when you meet a women, but do not have the nerve to ask?
According to men: You should never interrupt a women when she is _______ .
Name something you hold very carefully.
Name something a women might put in her hair.
Name one fact about Janet Jackson.
Name a beverage that is served at kids birthday party.
Name something you wear that might be plaid.
Name something people do with snow.
Name a animal that you are surprised that some people keep as a pet.
Tell me a women's name that starts with the letter "J."
Name something you would see a lot of at Kansas.
Name Something associated With Its A Wonderful Life
Name Something Guests Do At A Wedding Reception
Name Something A Movie Director Might Yell Out In The Set
Name The Hottest Month Of The Year
Name A Wild Animal Youd Be Foolish To Keep As A Pet
Name A Brand Of Toothpaste You See In Just About Every Drugstore
Name A Reason Mothers Call Llittle Children In From Playing Outside
Name Something You Have Accidentally Locked Yourself Out Of.
Name Something People Put On A Bagel.
Name Something You Make With Batter
Name A Good Job For Someone Who Likes To Work Outdoors
Tell Me What Youd Miss Most If You Were Stranded On The Survivor Island
Name A Reason A Whale Might Not Make A Good Pet For Kids
Name Something You Might See A Hotel Maid Holding
Name A famous Doctor Whom You Wouldnt Trust To Perform Surgery
Name A Vegetable That Goes Great With Party Dip
Name An Animal At The Zoo That might Go Beserk And hurt Someone
Name Someplace Where You Might See A Movie Advertised
Name Something People Put On Popcorn
Besides Walking Name A Way To Get Around In Snowy Weather
Name Something Associated With John Lennon
Besides The Show E.R., Name A TV Program About Doctors
Name A Pie Filling Often Used During The Holidays
Name something A Pet Might Do To Its Owners Shoes
Name Something a Visiting Alien Would Say Is A Huge Problem On Earth
After Too Much Time Together, What One Thing Can Get On Your Nerves About Your Partner
Name Something That Has The Word Pop In It
Tell Me A Manes Name That Starts With The Letter T
Name A Car That old People Like To Own
Other Than A Detergent, Name Something Around The House To Remove Stains
Name An Invention That Has Made Parents Jobs Much Easier
Name Something That Might Be Fruit Flavored
Name Something You Write A Note To Remind Yourself To Do
Name A Way To Make someone Laugh Without Speaking To Them
Name A Food That You Dont Have To chew To Swallow
Name Something That People Can Either Rent Or Buy
Name A Christopher Youve seen On Television
Name Something A Wife Likes To Her From Her Husband
Name A Way You Know Your Dog Is Happy To see You
Name Your Favorite Food With Peanut butter In It
Name An Entertainer Who Often performs Live
Name Something Kids Forget When Leaving For School
Name A Place That Has The Word Square In It
Name A Reason You Might Send Someone A card
Name Something That Would Be hard To Do If You Had Lockjaw
Name Something Youd See At A Gas Station
Name Something Your Dog Might Be Trying To Tell You When It Barks
Name An animal Whose Head You Might see On The wall Of A Hunters Den
Name Something That Starts With The Word Goose
Name A Part Of A Motorcycle That Would Be Hard To Ride Without
Name A Reason Why A Student Would Raise His Hand In Class
Name Something A Circus Performer Would Use On On A High Wire
On A Scale Of 1-10 How Happy Do You Think Most People Are
Name a famous Helen
Name A Food That Be Made With Blueberries
Name A Job That in Most Households, A Man Is More Likely To Do Than His Wife
We asked 100 women: Name Something Youd Be Uncomfortable Wearing In Public when You Feel You Have 10 Pounds To Lose
Give me another word for zero
Name something you need to play a game of ping-pong
Name a way youd travel across country
Name a famous bridge
What would you do if you found a lost wallet at a store
Name an animal youd see at Sea World
Name something you hope doesnt happen when youre holding a baby
Name something parents wish a baby could do for himself
Name something that people pitch.
Name a sport that involves hitting a ball
Name someone who probably wouldnt be invited to Batmans birthday party
Name a prop you would see in an Indiana Jones movie
Name something you associate with Tinkerbell
Name a non-alcoholic drink you can get at a bar.
Name A Good Gift For A Football Referee
Name A Reason Why You Only See Someone At Night
Name something people spread on crackers
Name Something People Do To Prevent Getting Sunburned
Name a type of person who would wear goggles
Name a problem youd have to deal with if you won the lottery
Name Someone Winnie The Pooh Is Good Friends With
Nmae The Best Drink To Have After Exercising
Name Something You Might Buy To Go With Your New Pool Table
Name something people do with horses that they dont do with cows
Name a type of entertainer you might see on a cruise ship
Name a reason youd close your eyes
Name something people keep near the kitchen sink
Name Something Most Doctors Carry With Them On Their Rounds
Name a Thanksgiving side dish
If Teenagers Were In Charge Of The Remote Control, Name The TV Channel They Would Be On All The Time
Name something other than an animal or a human that has an eye
Name Something You Grease
Name A Reason Why You Might Want To Change Seats On A Plane
Name A Color Movie Villains Never Wear
Name something you wish you had in your backyard
Which Term Is Most Overused In Internet chatting
Name Something People Suck On
Name The Month When The Weather Starts To Warm Up
Tell Me Something Youd Be Nervous About Loaning To A Friend
Name an appliance you keep plugged in all the time
Name an accessory that might be sold with a James Bond action figure
Name Something You Use Bricks To Build
Name something scientists wear in the lab
Name a job whered you spend most of the day in the sun
Name Something The Average Person Might Have To Do If They wanted To Be A Sumo Wrestler
Name An Animal You Might See Digging Through Your Garbage Can
Name Someone Associated With The Dico Era
Name A Way You Know A Cartoon Character Is Mad
Name A Government Agency With A 3 Letter Abbreviation
Name a state where they grow a lot of fruit
Name a sport where people wear helmets
Name a type of jewelry a man might wear
Name Something The Pit Crew Does When A Race Car Driver Pulls To The Side
Name something Kids Sell Door To Door
Name someone who has to wash their hands frequently
Name A Reason You Might Walk Out Of A Movie
Name a reason to see a movie at a theater rather than at home
Name something a bird watcher carries with them
Name Something Youd Need To Make A Sand Castle Besides Sand
Name an activity with sand kids like to do on the beach
Name A Gift Children Create At School
What Kind Of Bagel Would You Avoid Eating Before An Interview
Tell me how many hours of sleep parents of a newborn baby get (numeric only)
Name a famous woman named Paula
Name another word for mistake
What Might A Fan Ask Their Favorite Musician If They Met In Person
Name Something You Shouldnt Add Too Much Of To Your Laundry
Name Something You Trim
Name Something You Wrap Dishes In When Youre Moving
Tell Me Something Specific You Should Drink A Lot Of When Youre Sick
Tell Me Something Used In Hockey
Name Something Specific About A Kid That Changes As They Get Older
Name Something That Gets Plucked
Name Something That Has An Ending
Name Something Used That A High School Student Might Buy
Name Something You Might Have To Do If You Got A Speeding Ticket
Name Something People Do To The Windows In Their Home
Name Something People Donate To The Red Cross
Name Something People Know About Big Bird
Name Something Someone Might Ask You To Take A Whiff Of
Name An Exercise That Ends With The Word UP.
Name Something A Police Officer Might Wear Or Use For Protection
Name Something A Single Man Does A Lot More Of Than A Married Man
Name Something A Suspicious Girlfriend May Check In Her Boyfriends Cell Phone
Name Something About Bugs Bunny Thats Different From Most Rabbits
Name A Homemade Gift People Enjoy Receiving
Name A Place Where Most People Are Ticklish
Name A Reason A Mail Man Might Have A Bad Day On His Route
Name A Reason Why A Married Couple May Have A Hard Time Getting Out For A Date Night
Name A Reason Why You Might Have To Get Change For A Dollar
Name A Toy That Might Be Operated By Remote Control
Name A Fruit Put In Margaritas
Name A Healthy Snack A Mom Might Feed Her Kid
Name Something Some People Usually Brush Their Teeth Before Doing
Name A Reason Why You Might Give A Waiter A Bad Tip
Name Something On Everyones Driver License
Name Something Youd Find In A Breakfast Sandwich
Name Something People Pay Money To Be Scared By
Besides A Mattress, Name Something People Sleep On
Besides Clothes, Name Something Most People Pack In Their Suitcase While Traveling
Besides Paint, Name Something Youd Need If You Want To Become A Professional Artist
Name Something That Requires Your Signature
Name A Cable TV Channel That Is Watched Mainly By Kids
Name A Fabric That Would Make Terrible Bed Sheets
Name A Job Which You Need To Wash Your Hands Often
Name Something People Buy As A Status Symbol
Name Something A Cyclist Would Bring With Him Other Than His Bicycle
Name Something A Kid Would Do To Celebrate New Years
Name Something A Parent Would Buy Their Child For A Sleeper Camp
Name A Holiday That You Dont Get To Miss Work For
What Are Most Kids Afraid Of On Their First Day Of Kindergarten?
Name A Famous Rapper Who Became A Movie Actor
Name Someone Who Might Make A Speech At A Wedding
Name Something People Remember About The TV Show Cheers
Name Something Indiana Jones Would Put Away In His Closet
Name Something In Every Restaurants Kitchen
Name Something Associated With Albert Einstein
Name Something Every Farmer Needs
Name An Occupation Where Youd Hear A Lot Of Swearing
Name Something Youd Hate To Forget If You Were Going Camping
Tell Me An Excuse People Give The Police for Speeding
Name Something Associated With Humpty Dumpty
Name Something A Company Would Be Expected To Reimburse A Businessman For
If You Dared, Name Something About Superman You Might Make Fun Of
Name Something Associated With Goldilocks
Name A Specific Part Of Batmans Costume
Name Something A Bird Could Do To Ruin A Magicians Act
Which Part Of The Body Do People Injure Most When Exercising
Name A Form Of Transportation You Didnt See A Lot Of 100 Years Ago
Name Something A Person Wears Even If It Has Holes In It
Name Something That Has Speakers
Name A Way You Might Try To Stay Awake While Driving
Name A Fruit That Comes In A Can
Name A Place Where Its Always Rainy
Name something Icecream Might Be Served In
Name Something Ugly That Can grow On Your Feet
Name something Germans Are Famous For Making
Name Something Birds Do That A Human Would Look Rediculous Doing
Name A Toy That You Could Buy Your Friends Child That Might Ruin Your Friendship
Name A Class Every College Freshman Takes
Name Something You See In The Sky On A Clear Night
Name A Game Show That Gives Away A Lot Of Money
Need Something You Need To Wrap A Gift
Name A Place Where It Is Rude To Take Out Your Cell Phone
Name A vehicle Where Passengers Can Also Stand While Riding
Name Something Adults Do Even Though They Know Its Bad For Their Health
Name Something Parents Wish A Baby Could Do For Themselves
Name A Profession In Las Vegas That Makes really Good Tips
Besides CDs, Name Something A Music Store Might Sell
Name Something A Couple With A Baby Might Take Turns Doing.
Name Something That Quenches Your Thirst
Name A Type Of Cookie With Something In The Middle.
Name Something People Put In Plastic Bags
Name Something You Might Need In Order To Do Your Laundry
Name A Type Of Store Youd Find In Just About All Shopping Malls
Name Something Youd Hate To See Crawling Around Your Kitchen
Name Something Youd Give A Five Year Old To Make Him Stop Crying
Name The Worst Part About Going To The Beach.
Name Something That Might Hurt After Nose Surgery
Name A Bird That Has Good Eyesight
Name A Home Appliance That Can Get hot.
Name Something You Measure With
Name Something You Hook Up To A TV
Name Something You Can Do In Both A Bumper Car And A Race Car
Name Something Youd See An A Postcard From Hawaii
Name Something Youd Bring If You Were Going On An African Safari.
Name Someone Who Might Carry A Torch
Name Something People Know About Dumbo
Name Something A Football Player Wears That Would Look Ridiculous On A Tennis Player
Name Someone Youd See In A Hospital Delivery Room
Name An Animal Associated With Christmas
Name A Reason School Might Be Closed
Name Something That Distracts You In A Car
Who In America Seems To Make The Most Money For The Least Work?
Name Something That Squirts.
Name Something A Kid Gets A Ride In That An Adult Would Ridiculous Inside
Name A Food You Would Never Cook On A Hot Day
Name Something A Man With Very little Does To Make It Look Like He Has More
Name Something That Is Usually required to rent An Automobile
Name Something Associated with the movie The Sound Of Music
Name A type Of Cheese Americans Like The Best
Tell Me Something Food Might Come Wrapped In
Name Someone Who Probably Wouldnt Be Invited To Batmans Birthday
Name A form Of Transportation That Wouldnt Make A Lot Of Noise
When People Quit Smoking, Name Another Habit they May Pick Up
Name A reason Someone Might Call You In The Middle Of The Night
name Something A Person Might Do With Chewing Gum That Other People Think Is Rude
Name Something That Would Make You Self Conscious If You Were starring In A Movie About Ballet
Name A Term Youd Use for Someone Who Has A lot Of Money
Name A Bug That people Actually Like
Besides Best Picture, Name A Category They Give Oscars For
Name A Game Played at A Kids Party
Name A Food That Kids Often Refuse To Eat The Crust From
Name An Animal That Has large Eyes
Name Something Some People Buy And Others Rent
Name Something They Do At A Bar That lets You Know Its About To Close
Name something you would thank your spouse for doing but prosecute a stalker for
Besides Mickey, Nam A Character youre likely to find on A T-Shirt At Disneyland
Name Something Halle Berry Is Known For.
name A Part Of The Body Men Have More Hair Than Women
Which Thanksgiving food are you most likely to regret eating?
Name an animal that you might see at both the circus and the zoo
Name a snack with marshmallows in it
Name an actress on the cutting edge of fashion
Name something youd do if your upstairs neighbor was being too noisy.
Name a food you might see a chef flipping
How many times does the average person let a phone ring before answering it? (Numeric Only)
Name something women do to their hair more often than men do
Name a way a kid might get around town
Name something people enjoy doing under a tree
How can you tell that 2 people are on a first date
Tell me something you might skip doing if youre running late for work
Name an appetizer served at an Italian Restaurant
Name a brand of wristwatch sold in every department store.
In one word, name something that causes many couples to break up
Tell me something you worry about when it starts raining unexpectedly
Name a reason why a couple might live in 2 different cities
Name a complaint a woman might have about her cat that she would also have about her husband
Name a reason a married couple might sleep in separate beds
Name a good place to go for a date without spending money
Name a place where you might get asked to dance
Name A Holiday You Might Get Dressed Up For.
Name the age when a kid might go to his first school dance
Name something specific a divorced man might have to learn how to do when living by himself.
We asked 100 men: Name something about a beautiful woman that could make her unattractive.
Name something a pregnant woman gets asked about a lot
Name A Lie A Woman Might Tell A Man To Let Him Know Shes Not Interested In Him.
Whats the first question a person would ask after being dumped
Name something couples exchange when they get married
Real or fictional, name a woman that a mugger might be afraid of
Name Something That Would Be Impossible To Do In The Dark
If A High School Girl Was Really A Teenage Witch, Name Something She Might Use Her Special Powers For
Name Something A Business Person Keeps In A Briefcase
Name A Specific Kind Of Pepper People Put In Their Food
Name Something Youd See In A Restaurants Kitchen
Name the best place for single people to find each other.
Name something that can happen that would ruin a romantic getaway.
Name Something You Might See On A Brochure Advertising A Trip To New York City
Name Something Kids Like To Snack On Between Meals
Name someone a bride asks to be her bridesmaid
Name something a woman might have done at a beauty salon she probably couldnt get at a barber shop
Name something that people assume a great looking guy will be great at
Name something a woman would be foolish to apply makeup before doing.
Name the one person who is always tough to choose a gift for
We asked 100 men: If youre not interested in a woman after 3 dates, how do you let her know?
Early in a relationship, what might someone do to play hard to get?
Name something a woman does right after a marriage proposal
Name Something A Celebrity Might Go On A Talk Show To Promote.
What Might A Man Have In His Bedroom That Tells You Hes Still Re-living His High School Days.
If You Turned Into A Kangaroo, Name Something Youd Have To Get Used To.
Name A Food Item Typically Associated With Fall.
Name Something Pregnant Women Are Warned Not To Do.
Name A Famous Woman Whod Probably Make Her Husband Sign A Pre-nuptial Agreement.
Name An Article Of Clothing Some Women Try To Wear As Tight As Possible.
Name A Place People Go To Discuss Their Relationship Problems.
Name The Age When A Girl Starts Wearing Lipstick.
Name Something Youre Expected To Do If Youre Attending A Wedding.
What Happens To Women In A Horror Movies That Prevents Them From Running Away.
Name Something A Bride Worries Might Happen On Her Wedding Day.
Name Something A Man Does To Prepare For A Date.
Name Something A Woman Might Do To Her 12 Year Old Son That Would Cause Him To Say, Mom, Im Too Old For This
How Can You Tell That Two People Are On A First Date.
Which Subject Would Be Taboo For The Best Man To Bring Up In His Wedding Toast.
Name Something Madonna Has That The Average Woman Might Envy.
Name Something One Person In A Relationship Does Too Soon That Scares The Other One Away.
If They Did A Show Called Who Wants To Marry A Billionaire Name Someone They Might Get As The Groom.
Name The Worst Thing You Could Forget On Your Wedding Day.
Name Something You Might Expect To See A Lot Of In Beverly Hills.
Besides Dishes, Name Something You Might Put In Your Dishwasher.
What Might A Teenager Do After Breaking Up With Their First Love.
Name Something About Wonder Woman The Average Woman Might Envy.
A Real Man Would Breakup With His Girlfriend In Person. Tell Me A Way A Coward Might Do It.
Name Something In People Do To Eliminate Body Odor.
Name Something Youd Probably Find In Most Mansions.
Name Something Children Get In Their Hair.
Name Something A Man Might Still Do For A Woman When They Go Out On A Date.
what might a jilted lover do after a breakup that lands them in court
Name Something A Man Might Do In His Sleep That His Wife Might Think Is Cute.
Tell Me Something You Wish Would Stop Growing So You Didnt Have To Deal With It
Name A Place Where You Stand In Line, But Nobodys In A Hurry
Name A Type Of Fruit A Kid Might Have In A Lunch Bag.
Name Something The Stars Eat That You Probably Would Not Find In middle America.
Name A Souvenir A Tourist Might Bring Home From Hollywood.
On An Average Night How Long Does It Take You To Fall Asleep?
Name An Instrument In An Orchestra.
Name Something You Would Get On A Thanksgiving Pizza.
Name A Reason You Might Send A Bowl Of Soup Back.
What Is Something Associated With The Movie The Exorcist
What Might a Chain E-Mail Urge You To Do.
Name A Foreign Country Known For Making Good Movies.
What Do People Do While While Watching A Sports Game.
We Asked 100 Eleven Year Olds: Name A Game You Play In A Swimming Pool.
If You Were Starting Your Own Business, Tell Me The First Thing Youd Need.
If A Husband Found Out His Wife Had A Bad Day At Work, Name Something He Might Do To Make Her Feel Better.
Tell Me A Womans Name That Starts With The Letter K
Name Something A Caveman Might Use To Fight A Sabre-Toothed Tiger.
Name Something Sixteen-Year-Old Girls Might Do At A Slumber Party.
Name A Home Appliance That Can Get Hot.
Name A Famous Elizabeth.
Name A Vegetable That Makes A Loud Noise When You Eat It.
Name A Song Made Famous By The Beach Boys.
Name A Beverage Served At Fancy Restaurants.
Name A Tourist Attraction That Offers A Great View.
Name A place Where Youd See A lifeguard.
Name Something A Dog Might Be Wearing.
Name A Place Where People Arent Afraid To Sing Really Loud.
If A Woman Nicknamed Her Boyfriend Teddy Bear, What Might You Guess About Him.
Name Something You Might Find On Your Lawn That Youd Hate To Find On Your Carpet.
Name An Itchy Fabric.
Name Someone That Uses Hand Signals.
How Might An Employer Find Out About An Application Even Before The Interview.
Name a card game that takes a long time to play.
Name Something Youd Do Differently, If You Worked From Home Instead Of An Office.
Name Something People Remember About The TV Show Cheers
Name A TV Soap Opera Thats Been On For Years.
Name a state that begins with the letter I
What kinds of foods and drinks do people acquire a taste for as they get older?
Name something a man would miss most if he was stranded alone on a deserted island.
Name something you might need to buy if you worked from home.
Name a reason why you might not want to marry a pilot
Name something a woman keeps in her purse that a man might also have in his wallet
Name something for which you dress up to make a good first impression
Name something people do at a wedding that they would never do at a funeral
Name something people do to start a bottle of ketchup flowing
Name a place people go to discuss their relationship problems
Name something youd find in a hospital waiting room.
What would you name a boy born on Thanksgiving?
Name something that has channels
Name a word or phrase people use to say that theyre completely in love.
Name a pest you dont want in your garden.
Name the day of the week movie theaters are most crowded.
Name a sport where it would look silly to wear a helmet.
Name something a doctor tells a woman in labor to do.
Name something you do in the summer that you usually dont do in the winter.
Name an actor who you think might be able to knock out Mike Tyson.
Name an occasion when you see a lot of people wearing red.
Name something that happens in October.
Name a place where a noisy person might hear Shhh!
Name a vehicle that requires a special license to operate
Name a reason why you might not let someone else drive your car.
Tell me a womans name that starts with the letter K
Name something associated with Princess Leia
Name a kind of muffin.
Name A Complaint A Person Might Have About Their Dance Partner.
Name A Dessert Youd Find In Every Cafeteria
Name A Food Youd Serve As A Main Course And Use To Make Sandwiches The Next Day
After how many months of pregnancy does a woman begin to show
Name Something You Might Do When You Make A Wish
Name Another Word For Toilet.
Name The Best Type Of Cheese To Put On A Cheeseburger.
Name A Color Most People Wouldnt Want To Paint Their House.
Tell Me Something You Use To Wrap Dishes When Moving.
Name A Reason A Hunter Might Say He Had A Bad day.
In What Profession Might Someone Have Their Legs Insured.
Name A Part Of The Body Where Men Have More Hair Than Women.
Name A Place In The House Where People Store Old Clothes.
name Something kids Wish Will Happen At A Baseball Game.
Name Someone, Real Or Fictional, Who Was Very Greedy.
Name Something That Couples Should Do Together Regularly In Order To Stay Connected.
Name A Monthly Bill Where The Amount Changes Every Month.
Name Something People Buy At The Last Minute Before Thanksgiving.
If Your Cat Went On Strike, Name Something He Might Demand Before Returning To Work As Your Pet?
Name A Body Part That Begins With The Letter L
Name A Term That Starts With Fortune
Besides Alcohol, Name Something A Bartender Might Put In A Drink.
Tell Me Something A Store Owner Cant Sell To A Minor.
Name Something You Might Do On Vacation In Florida.
Name A Term That Describes Someone Who Comes In At First Place.
How Would You Enter A Swimming Pool If You Wanted To Get Noticed.
Besides Clothes, Name Something That Has A Zipper.
Name Something A Car Cant Run Without.
Name A Way You Can Tell Theres Someone At Your Front Door.
Name A Bird With Really Long Legs.
Name Something Thats Shaped Like A Donut.
Name Something Youd Find At Most Amusement Parks.
Name Something You Might See In A Dark Alley.
Name Something That Could Happen To A Man That Might Bring Tears To His Eyes.
Name A Person, Real Or Fictional, Who Is Famous For Having Red Hair.
Name Something A Guy Might Take With Him To A Poker Game.
Name Something That Lives Underground.
If Frankenstein Threw A Party, Name Someone Who Might Be On His Guest List.
Which Activity Would You Be Shocked To Find A Group Of Nuns Doing.
Name A Dairy Item Thats Sold As Non-fat.
Name Something That A Dog Hates Having Done To It.
Name An Excuse Married Men Give For Not Wearing a Wedding Ring.
Name A Type Of Vehicles Thats Really Long.
If Students Ran The Schools, Name Something They Would Probably Get Rid Of.
Tell Me A Pet That Lives A Long Time.
Name Something Somebody Might Do That Would Make Them A Grinch Or A Scrooge.
In Addition To A Resume, What might An Actor Need To Send When Applying For A Job.
Besides A Motorcycle, Name Something Every Biker Dude Should Have.
Name Something Youd See At A Very Fancy Restaurant Youd Never Expect To See At McDonalds.
We Asked 100 Married People: How Many Times In A Week Does Your Partner Say I Love You
Name A Good Birthday Gift For A Kid Who Wants To Be A Cowboy.
Tell Me What A Man Does To Cover Up His Bald Spot.
Name Something Fans Do At A Rock Concert That They Wouldnt Do At An Opera.
What Kind Of Comments Do You Think Mike Tyson Had On His Kindergarten Report Card.
Name Something You Shouldnt Take Away From A Baby, Unless You Enjoy The Sound Of Screaming.
What Are A Couch Potatos Favorite Hobbies.
Tell Me How Much Money A Man Expects To Spend On A Date.
Tell Me The Hour Of Day When a Grocery Store Is Busiest.
If You Were Married To An NBA Star, What Might You Have To Get On Your Tip Toes To Do.
Name A Football Bowl Game.
Name A Fast Food Restaurant Kids Love.
Name A Famous Person Named John
Name Something That Starts With The Word Egg
Name Something Associated With Winnie-the-pooh.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Can Be Buckled.
Name A Profession Where You Might Be Called A Shark.
Name Something A Police Officer Might Ask For After Pulling Someone Over.
Name A Movie You Walked Out On Or Wish You Had.
Name A Vegetable That People Might Grow In Their Backyard.
Name An Ingredient Youd Find In Trail Mix.
Name Something Listed On A Wedding Invitation.
Name something adult women wear Elegantly, But Pre-teens Often Look Silly In.
Name Something You See Horses Do At Horse Shows.
Name a Type Of Shopping That Many People Dislike Doing.
Name Someone A Rich Person Might Hire To Work For Them.
Name Something Youd See At A Thrift Store.
Name Something That A Hula Dancer Wears.
Name A Reason A Student Might Have To Raise Their Hand In Class.
Name Something Ugly That Can Grow On Your Feet.
Name Something People Know About Kangaroos.
Name Something Youd See On A Coffee Table
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Dress Up Like A Rock Star.
Name Something Healthy That Might Be Found In A Cookie.
Name Something Specific You Might Buy At A Lingerie Store.
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Be Up Late At Night.
Name A Kind Of Cookie People Love To Dunk In Milk.
Name Something That Comes In A Lot Of Flavors.
Name Something You Can Adjust On Your TV.
Name A Country That Produces A Lot Of Oil.
Name Something People File For.
Name A Shakespeare Play Which Was Made Into A Movie.
Name A Sport That Can Be Played Both Indoors And Outdoors.
Name Something People Do In Their Car That Youd Be Surprised To See A Race Car Driver Do During A Competition.
Name Something That Might Make Your Voice Sound Different From The Way It Usually Does.
Name An Animal That Lives On Both Land And Water.
Name A Place Where A Teenage Girl Might Keep Her Diary.
Name A Gambling Game Where You Bet On A Certain Number Coming Up.
Name Something Denver Is Famous For.
Name A Movie That A Dog Would Love To Watch.
Name Something People Do In The Grand Canyon.
Name A Noisy Food Youd Hate For Someone To Chomp Next To You At The Movie Theatre.
Name Something You Might Serve A Dinner Guest Before The Main Course
Name Something Little Red Riding Hood Suspected Was Different About Her Grandmother.
Name A Good Food To Throw In A Food Fight.
Name A Man, Past Or Present, Whos Famous For Dancing In The Movies
Name Something A New Parent Would Hate To Run Out Of
Name A Souvenir A Tourist Might bBring Home From Hollywood
Name A Famous Woman Tennis Player
Name Something Cher Is Famous For
Name A Bad Place For A Ball To Land On A Golf Course
Name A Class You Might Take If You Wanted To Go To Law School
Name Something A Man Might Do At A Bar That Hed Probably Get In Trouble For Doing At Work
Name Something People Find Under Their Sofa Cushions
Name A Type Of Yardwork That People Dread Doing
Name A Comic Book Kids Love To Collect
Name Something Youd See In The Back Seat Of A Car That Would Tell You They Have Children
Name Something That Has A Horn
Name A Fruit That Is Considered Tropical
Name A Fruit That Is Squeezed To Get The Juice
Name An Article Of Clothing People Get Fitted For
Tell Me A Decoration You Might See At Someones Birthday Party
Name A Food People Often Eat With Champagne
Name A Phrase That Begins With the Word Spanish
Name Something Youd Do If You Were On Vacation In Florida
Name A Way People Enter A Swimming Pool
Name A Prop You Would See In An Indiana Jones Movie
Name Something Very Important To Bring On A Long Hike
Name Something Kids Might Look Forward To At School In The Month Of December
Name Something You Know About Kangaroos`
Name A State That Has A Lot Of Desert
Name Something Or Someone Associated With The Addams Family
Name A Way To Get Rid Of Weeds In A Garden
Name Something A Famous Actor Might Buy To Show Off Their Money
Name A Sign You Might See In An Apartment Leasing Office That Begins With The Word No?
Name A Word You Would Use When Addressing Royalty
Name Something Annoying That Men Often Do In Your Bathroom
Name Something That Happens To You When You Eat Too Much Sugar
Name A Sound You Hear At A Boxing Match
Name Something You Do With Your Child To Get Ready For Bed
Name Something A Zoo Gorilla Might Do If He Wanted To Get Your Attention
Name A Reason You Wouldnt Want To Drive Behind A Bus
Name Something A Bartender Might Remember About A Customer
Name A Present A Boy Might Ask For That Most Parents Would Never Give
Name Something Associated With Fran Drescher
Name Something You Color
Name A Famous Dan
Name Something You Worry About When It Begins To Rain
Name Something A Man Would Wear If He Were To Impersonate A Woman
Name Something Demi Moore Has More Experience In Than Aston Kutcher
Name Something Annoying Kids Say On A Long Car Trip
Alive Or Dead, Name An Author Of Scary Stories
Name Something You Do On Weekday Mornings That Dont Have To Do On The Weekend
Name The Most Important Part Of A Wedding Ceremony
Name A Food Youd Expect To Find At A Super Bowl Party
Name Something People Often Skip
Name A Bald Actor
Name Something People Get Removed From Their Body
Name A Reason You Wouldnt Want To Live In New York
Name Something A Church Couldnt Do Without
Name An Occupation That Edward Scissorhands Would Be Good At
Name Something You Would Complain About When You Receive A Pizza Delivery
Name Something Youd Find In A Hospital Waiting Room
Name A Type Of Vehicle That You Would Ride In The Back
Name Something You Would See A Lot Of In Texas
Name Something Irritating That Would Happen When Using A Pay Phone
Name A Place Where It Would Be Rude To Use Your Cell Phone
Name Something Donald Trump Probably Keeps With Him At All Times
Name A Country That Was Involved In World War II
What Clubs Would You Imagine Bill Gates Was A Member Of In High School
What Funny Things Does Your Spouse Do In Their Sleep?
Name A Soft Drink Other Than Coke
Name A Part Of A Car Thats Often Replaced.
Name Something That Happens In The Fall
Name A State Where You Could Go Swimming In The Winter
Name A Sport In Which Athletes Dont Have To Retire Young.
Name Something A Driver Might Do That Would Cause You To Write Down His Cars License Number
Besides Cheer, Name Something Fans Do At A Baseball Game.
If Your Purse Was Stolen, Tell Me The One Thing In It That Would Be Hardest To Replace
Name A Profession That Uses Scissors
If A Ten-Year-Old Went On Strike, Name Something That Might Be Demanded From The Parents.
Name A Word Or Phrase Beginning With The Word Snow
What Color Wigs Do You Suspect Cher Might Have
Name A Way People Might Greet Each Other
Name A Song People Play Around Halloween
Name A Drink The Designated Driver Might Order
Name Something That Might Be Taught In Table Manners 101?
Name Something Gentlemen Used To Do For Ladies That They No Longer Bother With
Name Something You Shouldnt Do While Youre Driving
Name A Reason Why A Kid Might Be Moved To The Front Of The Class
Name Something People Know About The Titanic
Name A Way You Can Tell Someone Is Skating At An Ice Rink For The First Time
Name An Animal That You Hear At Night
How Can You Tell That Your Neighbors Are Out-Of-Town
Name Something A 10-Year-Old Boy Might Ask Santa For
Name Something You Might Ask Directions From While Driving
Name Something Specific Associated With Who Wants To Be A Millionaire
How Many Pairs Of Shoes Does The Average Man Own.
Name A Creature That Doesnt Have Legs
Name Something Visitors Are Told Not To Do In A Museum
Name A Type Of Test You Cant Study For
Name Type Of Event Where You Often See Scalpers Outside
Name Something About Airlines That Comedians Like To Make Jokes About
Name Something People Check On A Used Car Before Buying It
Name A Place In The Newspaper You Wouldnt Want To See Your Name
Name Your Favorite Food With Peanut Butter Inside.
Name A Place You Might Whisper
What Could You Find In A Garden Salad, But Not In A Garden
Besides Football Games, Name An Event That Might Be Held In A Football Stadium
Name A Singing Group That Has A Number In Its Name
Name Something Charlie Brown Likes To Do
Name Something That Some People Steal From Restaurants
Name Something Specific A Dancer Might Wear In An Old Hollywood Musical
Name Someone Whos Is Famous For Playing The Trumpet.
Name Something You Might Drink On Christmas Eve By The Fire
Name Something You Might See When Youre Dead
Name A Famous Country Western Singer Living Or Dead
Name A Present You Would Get Your Best Friend For The Holidays
Name Something ThatS Sold At An Airport Gift Shop
Name Something Youd Buy At A Bakery For Christmas
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Be A Lawyer
Tell Me Something That Makes People Thirsty
Name Another Word People Call Beer
Name A Type Of Business Where You Might Drop Something Off And Pick It Up Later
Name The Time Of Day A Person Is Likely To Take A Nap
Name A Vehicle YouD Hate To See A Man Pull Up In Before He Takes You On A Date
If You Could Only Eat One Food For The Rest Of Your Life, What Would It Be
Name Something Cowboys Are Good At
Why Might Santa Claus Get Pulled Over If He Took His Sleigh On The Freeway
Name A Color Leaves Turn In The Fall
Name A Type Of Tv Program People Watch In The Afternoon
Name A Place People Go To See Fireworks On New YearS Eve
Name Something People Do To Cows That The Cows Might Object To
Name Something StudentS Use In Math Class
Name A Good Homemade Holiday Gift
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Make A Teddy Bear
Name An Advantage Of Being A Senior Citizen
Name Something Youd Do Around The House That Youd Need A Ladder
Name Something People Do With Snow
Name A Board Game Youd Like To Get As A Gift
Name A Holiday ThatS More Fun For Adults Than Kids
Name Something That Probably Got On Janes Nerves After She Married Tarzan.
Name Something You Buy At A Hospital Gift Shop
Name Something That Might Get Frozen In The Winter
Name A Practical Joke You Might Purchase From A Joke Shop
Name Someone Who Might Wear A Pointy Hat
Name A Reason Someone Would Return A Gift.
Name Something You Might Ask A Bathroom Attendant For
Name Something That Kids Fight Over During The Holidays.
Name A Musical Instrument You Blow Into.
Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Invite Your Partner To Your Company Party.
Name A Popular Wedding Gift.
Name Something People Buy By The Roll
What Should You Never Forget To Take To The Beach?
Name A Holiday When Youd See A Parade.
Besides Christmas, Name A Holiday Most People Get Off From Work.
Name A Place To Avoid During The Holidays.
Name An Insulting Thing Someone Might Do With A Gift You Sent Them.
Name Something A Teenager Might Try To Get Away With When Their Parents Are Out Of Town
Name A Gift You Might Bring Back With You From Mexico.
Name Something Baseball Players Do While Theyre In The Dugout
Name The Best Movie Score
Tell Me Something Thats Hard To Do While Driving In The Snow.
Name A Fruit You Can Buy In The Frozen Food Section
Name A Snow-Related Activity Santa Might Do To Stay Healthy.
Name Something People Ride On Snow.
Name Something Santa Probably Does The Other 364 Days A Year.
Even Though Hes Normally Jolly, Name A Gripe Santa Claus Might Have About A House Hes Delivering Toys To.
Name An Animal Traditionally Associated With Christmas.
Name An Image That Might Appear On Christmas Wrapping Paper.
Name Something That Starts With The Word Santa
Name Something People Buy At The Last Minute For Christmas.
Name A Movie Where The Plot Had More Twists And Turns Than A Corkscrew
Name Something A Person Might Use To Clean Their Belly Button
Name Something You Would Need To Dress Up Like Santa.
Name Something You Usually Cant Use If You Dont Have Any Change.
Name Something Many Houses Smell Like Around The Holidays.
Name A Public Place You Might Sing Out Loud With Other People
Name A Beauty Procedure A Woman Wouldnt Do Herself
Name Something You Dip In A Fondue
Do On Christmas Eve ( Wording Not Exact )
Name An Animal That Looks Cuddly, But Would Probably Eat You Alive.
Name Someone Specific You Send A Holiday Card To.
Name Something The Godfather Probably Consumes Every Day
Name A Good Gift For A High School Graduate.
Name A Relative Youd Rather Not See During The Holidays.
Name A Place Thats Usually More Crowded On Fridays Than The Rest Of The Week
Name A Food That Gets Chopped
Name Something Romantic About Christmas.
If All Else Fails, Name Something People Get For Mom For The Holidays.
Name The Most Common Christmas Tree Decoration.
Name Something People Turn Off Before They Go To Bed
Name The Loudest Animal In The Zoo
Superman Christmas Card ( Key Words Only )
Name A Common Holiday Craft.
Name A Christmas Song People Are Tired Of.
Name Something People Apply For.
Name An Advantage Of Owning A Fake Christmas Tree.
Name Something You See In From Yards During The Holidays.
Name An Expression Little Kids Use When They Have To Go To The Bathroom
Name Something A Sailor Has To Worry About Crashing Into.
Name A Christmas Song That Everyone Knows The Words To
Name The Most Popular Christmas Song.
Name Something You Use Tweezers To Remove
Name A Holiday That You Dont Get To Miss Work For.
What Happens To Fairy Tale Princesses, But Not To Most Regular People In Love?
Name Something A Man Makes Sure To Do Before His Wedding
Name A Way You Could Tell That The Person Youre Dating Is A Snowman.
Name Something People Have In Their Cars That Santa Might Like To Have In His Sleigh.
Tell Me Something You Cant Drive Your Car Without
Name The Least Offensive Sport If You Forget Your Deodorant
Name Something Youd Hate To Get In Your Hair.
Other Than Santa Claus, Name Someone Else Who Lives At The North Pole.
Give Me A Slang Term Youd Use To Describe A Really Good-Looking Guy
Name An Activity People Like To Do At A Lake
Name Something A Man Gives His Wife On Valentines Day.
Name Something Thats Weighed On A Scale
Name Something Embarrassing Your Parents Might Do During The Holidays.
Name Something You Find On A One-Dollar Bill
Name Something Youd Be Surprised To Find That An Exercise Instructor Did
Name A Beverage You Might During At A Typical Holiday Party.
Name Something In Your Home That Makes A Lot Of Noise.
Name A Pet That Makes A Good Holiday Gift.
Name Someone Who Writes The Funniest Stories About Christmas.
Name A Gift You Received In The Past That Seems Really Out Of Style Now.
Name Something People Stop For On Their Way To Work
Name A Holiday You Would Go Out To A Theater To See A Movie On.
Name Something Associated With The Month Of December.
Name A Place A Parent Hides Presents So Children Wont Find Them.
Name Something You Use To Decorate A Snowman.
Name A Kind Of Cookie People Leave Out For Santa.
Name Something Specific A Child Can Do To Get On Santas Nice List.
Tell Me A Holiday When Stores Have Special Sales.
Name Something Expensive A Teenager Might Ask His Parents For
Name A Gift Children Create At School And Give Their Parents.
Name Your Favorite Filling In A Holiday Candy.
Name Something People Forget To Do Before The Holidays.
Name A Present A Girl Might Ask For That Most Parents Would Never Give.
Name A Good Gift For Someone Who Just Graduated From College.
If A Grown Man Sat On Santas Knee, Name Something He Might Tell Him He Wanted For Christmas.
Name A Type Of Dealer
Name Something You Might See At A Church Gift Shop.
Besides Big, Name A Movie With The Word Big In The Title
Name A Singer Of Classic Holiday Standards.
Name A College Major That Ends In Ology
Name Something The City Of Atlanta Is Known For
Name A Type Of Pancake
Tell Me Which Superhero Has The Coolest Costume
If You Were In A Forest Camping Out, Name A Sound That Might Keep You Up All Night
Name Something A Couple Stops Sharing After They Get Divorced.
How Many Toys Does A Child Get For The Holidays.
Name A Reason A Kid Might Want A Specific Breakfast Cereal
Name A Kind Of Animal You Might See In A Swamp
Name A Pie Filling Often Used During The Holidays.
Name A Relative You Only See During The Holidays.
How Many Days After Christmas Do People Take Down Their Decorations.
Tell Me The Age When A Kid Is Too Old To Sit On Santas Lap.
Name A Holiday Thats Considered Patriotic.
Besides Fly, Name Soemthing Birds Do A Lot Of.
Besdies A Diaper, Name Something You Might Need When Changing A Baby.
Name Something That Might Accidentally Get Caught In A Paper Shredder.
Name Something About Their Job That Most People Would Change If They Could.
Name Something A Person Might Read Everyday.
Name Something That A Child Star Has To Do That The Average Kid Doesnt.
Name An Activity People Do On Christmas Eve.
We Asked 100 Women: What Do People Often Say About Men That Isnt True In Your Experience?
Name A Good Material For A Winter Coat.
Name A Complaint People Have About Their Computers.
Name A Reason A Hunter Might Say He Had A Bad Day.
Name Something You Worry About Before Falling Asleep At Night.
Name Something You Shouldnt Do While Driving.
Name Something A Student Might Buy That Has Their School Emblem On It.
Name Something Thats Sold At An Airport Gift Shop.
Name Something A King Has That The Average Person Doesnt.
Name Something That People Hang Outside.
Name Something Teenagers Did In The 50?s.
Name An Activity Kids Like To Do That They Need To Wear A Helmet For.
Name A Way The Incedible Hulk Is Different From Most Other Superheroes.
Name Something Every Tight Rope Walker Needs To Do Their Job.
If You Were Invited To Speak At A Roast For Arnold Schwarzenegger, Name Something About Him You Might Make Fun Of.
Name A State That Has Lots Of People.
Name Something You Might Find On Someones Doorstep.
Name A Place Where People Like To Go Skiing
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanter To Look Like The Grim Reaper.
What Movie Would You Need Plenty Of Kleenex In Order To Watch?
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Prefer Eating At A Drive-Thru Restaurant.
Name Something That Spins.
Name Something You Hold Very Carefully.
Name Something Thats Usually Required To Rent An Automobile.
Name Something You Would Need If You Wanted To Dress Up Like The Statue Of Liberty.
What Might A Bankrobber Do In Order To Make An Escape?
Name Something You Might Cut Out Of Your Morning Routine If You Were In A Big Hurry.
Name An Occupation In Which Youd Be Very Embarrassed To Get An Embarrassed Ticket.
Name Something Associated With Lucy From The Peanuts Comics.
Name Something Parents Tells Their Kids Not To Waste.
Name Something That Youd Test Out Before Buying Second-Hand.
Name Something Thats Made Of Cotton (Be More Specific Than Clothes).
Name An Occupation That Ends With The Word Man.
Name Another Word For Small.
Name Something Arnold Schwarzenegger Would Look Silly In.
Name A City In Florida.
Name A Famous Book Of The Bible That People Study In Bible Class.
Name A Food You Might Wash Before Eating. (Be More Specific Than Fruit)
Name A Popular Brand Of Mens Underwear.
Name A Superstition That Many Brides Follow On Their Wedding Day.
If A Clown Had A Garage Sale, Name Something Youd Probably See For Sale.
Name Something Youd Need If You Were Making Pancakes.
Name A Movie With The Word Cat In The Title.
Name Something You Might Need To Get A Permit Before Doing.
Tell Me Something Youd Expect Mobster Don Vito Corleone To Do At A Wedding.
We Asked 100 Women: Name Something You Wouldnt Wait For A Man To Do First If You Liked Him.
When Ordering A Pizza, Name Something Extra You Might Ask For.
Name Something You Might Find In An Igloo.
Name Something You Might Fold.
Name Something A Biker Dude Would Look Silly Riding.
Name Something At Home That People Might Trip Over.
Name Something Kids Can Do To Celebrate The New Year.
Name Something People Do On The Day After Thanksgiving.
Name Something You Might Find At A Seance.
Name Someone Whose Job It Is To Make Problems Go Away.
Name Someone Youd Be Embarrassed To Be Drunk In Front Of.
Name Someplace Where Youd See A Diamond.
Name A Specific Button On A Clock Radio.
Name A Type Of Music Youd Probably Never Hear At A Retirement Home.
Name An Alternative To Turkey On Thanksgiving.
Name A Person Associated With England.
Name A Reason Why The Speed Limit Might Suddenly Go Down In One Area.
Name A Reason Why You Might Be Driving Slower Than Usual.
Name A Sign That The Person You Are About To Fight Knows Karate.
Name A Country That Has Lots Of Cafes.
Name A Famous Group Of Three Characters.
Name A Form Of Transportation You Wouldnt Want To Use In A Rain Storm.
Name A Job Thats Still Primarily Held By Women.
Besides A Bird, Name Something Youd Find In A Birdcage.
Name A Beverage You Cant Imagine Drinking On A Hot Day.
Name A Cartoon TV Show That Everyones Seen.
Name A Circumstance That People Say Only Happens To One In A Million.
Name A Circus Performer Who Cant Make A Single Mistake.
Who Is The Funniest Animated Character Of All Time?
Name Something A Baseball Fan Might Do At A Game That Would Get Him Kicked Out Of The Stadium.
Name A Profession That Has A Nerdy Reputation.
Name Something A Woman Might Do To Her 12 Year Old Son That Would Cause Him To Say, Mom, Im Too Old For This!
Name A Fruit People Put In Cakes.
Name Something You Might Blame On A Headache.
Name Something You Shouldnt Do Right Before Going To Sleep.
We Asked 100 Married People: What Was The Single Hardest Thing To Start Sharing Once You Moved In With Your Partner?
Who Is The First Person You Would Tell If You Got A Date?
Name Something New Dads Do Immediately After The Birth Of Their New Baby.
Name Something On Grandma That Might Be Fake.
Name Something Specific A Child Does To Get On Santas Naughty List.
Name Something You Know About Alcatraz.
Name A Specific Reason A Person Might Buy A Satellite Dish.
Name An Animal That Makes A Lot Of Noise.
Name Someone Who Works On Movies, But Never Gets Enough Credit When A Great Movie Is Made.
Name Something A Person Does Often When Theyre Sleepy.
If A Man Goes By The Name Al, What Might It Be Short For?
Name A Piece Of Technology That People Hate, But Need.
Name A Place Where Its Good To Be Tall.
Name A Place You Associate With Palm Trees.
Tell Me The Age A Man Might Start Losing His Hair.
What Do You Suspect About A Person Who Doesnt Smile Much?
Why Do Most People Never End Up In Movies?
How Might An Employer Find Out About An Applicant Even Before The Interview?
Name Something They Sell In A Survival Store.
Name Something You Associate With Brad Pitt.
Name Something You Drink At The First Sign Of A Cold To Try To Ward It Off.
Name Something You Find In The Game Monopoly.
Tell Me Another Name Santa Claus Goes By.
Tell Me Something You Could Avoid By Staying Young Like Peter Pan.
Name Something Associated With Diana Ross.
Name Something People Suffering From Colds Always Seem To Be Doing.
Name Something That Has A Captain.
Name Something Thats Found In Just About Every Desk Drawer.
Name Something The Cartoon Characters The Jetsons Had That You Wish You Had.
Name Something A Bathroom Attendant Might Offer You.
Name Something A Magician Might Make Appear Out Of Thin Air.
Name Something A New Couple Does More Often Than A Couple That Has Been Together Awhile.
Name Something A Water Skier Might Crash Into
Name An Ingredient A Baker Would Hate To Be Allergic To.
Name An Occasion When People Might Have Their Picture Taken.
Name One Of Bugs Bunnys Pals.
Name A Reason The Audience Might Start Booing At A Movie Theater.
Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Invite Your Partner To Your Company Holiday Party.
Name A US City Where It Snows A Lot During The Holidays.
Name A Way People Get Rid Of Mice.
Name An Annoying Bug A Person Might FInd In Their House.
Name A Kind Of Ring Not Worn On A Finger.
Name A Modern Day Holiday Movie.
Name A Nut Youd Find In Ice Cream.
Name A Popular Christmas Story For Children.
Besides Students, Name Something You See In Most High School Hallways.
If You Ran Out Of Kleenex, Name Something You Might Wipe Your Nose With.
Name A Beverage You Might Drink At A Typical Holiday Party.
Name A Casino Game Most People Dont Know All The Rules To.
Name A Company Thats Famous For Making Car Tires.
As Early As October, How Can You Tell Christmas Is Coming?
Besides His Bicycle, Name Something A Cyclist Might Take With Him On A Ride.
Name Something Youd Buy For A Dog Youd Never Buy For A Cat.
Tell Me The Youngest Age When Someone Should Get Married
Name The Thing In A Movie That Always Makes You Close Your Eyes.
What Are You Always Disappointed To Find In Your Chirstmas Stocking.
What Part Of Your Body Gets Tired When You Swim?
Which Tool Would You Not Want To Be Without When Building A House?
Name A Mistake A Pizza Chef Might Make The First Day On The Job.
Name A Place Thats Visited Often, That You Cant Imagine Going For A Business Trip.
Name Something You Wouldnt Want To AccidentallyPut In Your Garbage Disposal.
Name Something Youd Find In A Hotel Bathroom That You Wouldnt Find In Your Own.
Name Something Youd Find In Every Hotel Room.
Name The First Person You Call When You Have Great News.
Name Something You Might Take With You When Walking Your Dog.
Name Something You Need To Play Scrabble.
Name Something You Wish People Wouldnt Do In Your Car.
Name Something You Would Dress Your Ipod As On Halloween.
Name Something That People Post Flyers For.
Name Something That Shines At Night.
Name Something You Do At An Office Party.
Name Something You Expect People To Do At Halloween, But Not At Christmas.
Name Something You Might Have To Watch Out For While Skiing The Slopes.
Name Something People Take Out Of Storage In The Fall.
Name Something Stars In The Sky Have In Common With Criminals.
Name Something Students Would Not Want The Teacher To Catch Them Doing.
Name Something Superman Does That Clark Kent Doesnt.
Name Something That Crawls.
Name Something People Get A Newborn For The Holidays.
Name Something People Put In The Microwave That They Shouldnt.
Name Something Found In Santas Workshop.
Name Something People Associate With Malibu, California
Name Something About A Teddy Bear Thats Different From A Real Bear.
Name Something About The Holidays That Is A Source Of Stress.
Name Something Embarrassing That Can Happen When You Sing Karaoke.
Name Something Every Dentist Needs To Do His Job.
Name Something A Child Might Do For Or Give Santa.
Name Something A Highway Crew Might Use On A Snowy Road.
Name Something A Kid Gets A Ride In, That An Adult Would Look Ridiculous Inside.
Name Something A Rapper Might Wear That Youll Never See Al Gore Wearing.
Name A Way People Get Around In New York City.
Name An Occasion For Which You Might Rehearse A Phone Call Before Making It.
Name An Occupation With Collector In Its Name.
Name Someone Famous Who Used To Play For The New York Yankees.
Name Someone Who Might Knock On Your Hotel Room Door.
Name A Sport Many People Think Is Boring.
Name A Sport Where The Athletes Dont Look Very Athletic.
Name A State Where It Hardly Ever Snows.
Name A Way Children Submit Their Wish List To Santa.
Name A Place A Kid Might Store Their Toys.
Name A Product Advertised On TV Thats Aimed At Old People.
Name A Specific Bowl Game That Takes Place During The Holidays.
Name A Specific Task A Kid Might Want To Do While Helping To Bake Cookies.
Name A Specific Way A Couple Might Show Affection In Public.
Name A Mistake People Make When Driving In The Snow.
Name A Movie Character With A Skintight Costume.
Name A Never-Ending Song That Some People Sing On Road Trips.
Name A Good Gift For Someone Who Takes A Lot Of Photographs.
Name A Holiday Dessert With Cinnamon In It.
Name A Jelly Bean Flavor.
Name A Mean Prank Kids Play At Halloween.
Name A Comic Book Superhero Who Could Have Used A Little Therapy.
Name A Family Member You Might Have On Your Team When Playing Family Feud.
Name A Famous Douglas.
If You Produced A Monster Movie, In Which City Would You Shoot It?
If You Were Stranded At The Bottom Of The Grand Canyon, Name Something You Would Hope To Have With You.
Name A Bug That Has Many Legs.
Name A Color A Teenager Might Dye Her Hair That Would Annoy Her Parents.
Name Something People Consider A Snack Food.
Besides Skis, Name Something People Use On A Ski Slope.
Besides Weights, Name A Good Gift For A Body Builder.
Besides White Christmas, Name A Song On Bing Crosbys White Christmas Album.
We All Know The Grinch Stole Christmas, Name Another Holiday He Might Want To Steal.
We Asked 100 Men: Where Do Women Just Hate To Go?
We Asked 100 Women: Name Something You Feel Uncomfortable Wearing In Public, When You Feel You Have 10 Pounds To Lose.
Who Would Santa Claus Not Invite To His Christmas Party?
Real Or Fictional, Name Someone Who Has A Lot Of Muscles.
Tell Me A Mans Name That Starts With The Leter B.
Tell Me Something Sharks Are Known To Eat.
Tell Me The Age When A Childs Last Baby Tooth Falls Out.
Name Something You Take Extra Time To Do When Guests Are Coming Over.
Name Something Youre Asked To Do At The Eye Doctors Office.
Name The Holiday People Gan The Most Weight After.
Name The Person You Spend The Most Money On At Christmas.
Name Something You Like To Smell Around Your Neighborhood In Summer.
Name Something You Might Do Just Before Someone Snaps Your Picture.
Name Something You Might Need When Serving Corn-On-The-Cob.
Name Something You Might See In A Bathtub.
Name Something You Might Take With You On A Long Plane Flight.
Name Something You Need To Knit A Sweater.
Name Something Twins Do As Kids, But Probably Not As Adults.
Name Something Water Skiers Need That Snow Skiers Dont.
Name Something Willie Nelson Is Famous For.
Name Something You Find At A Carnival That Comes On A Stick.
Name Something That Might Crash.
Name Something That People Try To Avoid Doing In An Elevator.
Name Something Thats In A Bookstore, But Not In Most Libraries.
Name Something People Do With Snow.
Name Something People Try Yo Squeeze Into.
Name Something Specific Thats Served In A Cup.
Name Something That Makes Music.
Name Something That Might Annoy A Barber About The Person Whose Hair Hes Cutting.
Name Something For Which You Dress Up To Make A Good First Impression.
Name Something Grown-Ups Sleep With In Order To Feel Secure.
Name Something Parents Do To A Child Who Wont Eat His Supper.
Name Something People Do In Their Sleep.
Name Something People Do When They Want To Look Better.
Name Something An Alien Would Report Back That Earth Has A Lot Of.
Name Something Associated With A Genie.
Name Something Credit Card Companies Offer, As A Reward For Signing Up.
Name Something A Teenage Girl Might Do If She Met Leonardo DiCaprio In Person.
Name Something A Young Man Would Need If He Wanted To Impersonate An Old Man.
Name Something About Your Car Thats Different When The Parking Attendant Brings It Back.
Name Something A Department Store Has To Do To Prepare For The Holiday Season.
Name Something A Farmer Uses Which Might Cause An Injury.
Name Something A Kid Might Do At A Public Swimming Pool That Annoys Others.
Name Something A Person Wears, Even If It Has A Hole In It.
Name One Thing Which Might Tell Someone That Fall Is In The Air.
Name Someone Superman Might Send A Christmas Car To.
Name Someone You Might Tip At A Hotel.
Name Something A Child Might Draw A Picture Of For Halloween
Name Another Expression For Getting Married.
Name One Of Santas Reindeer.
Name One Of The Least Popular Common Holiday Gifts.
Name An Animal At The Zoo You Can Recognize Just By Its Sound.
Name An Animal That Likes To Eat Fish.
Name An Animal That Ruins Farmers Crops.
Name An Appliance You Have In You Home, That Your Grandparents Didnt
Name A Vehicle That Requires A Special License To Operate.
Name A Way In Which People Try To Keep Up With Their Neighbors.
Name An Accessory People Buy For Their Computer.
Name A Snack You Might See Sitting Out During The Winter Holidays.
Name A Specific Chore Kids Do To Earn Their Allowance.
Name A Spice You Associate With Christmas.
Name A Type Of Cheese (Not A Brand) People Like In A Salad.
Name A Type Of TV Show Thats Popular Now, But Barely Existed 20 Years Ago.
Name A Reason A First-Timer Might Say They Had A Bad Time Skiing.
Name A Reason First Class Is Better Than Coach Class.
Name A Reason Someone Might Buy One Brand Of Toilet Paper Over Another.
Name A Present Most Girls Would Want For The Holidays.
Name A Problem Someone With Braces Might Have.
Name A Really Small State.
Name A Movie Star Who Could Be Knee Deep In A Pig Pen And Still Look Sophisticated.
Name A Place Where You Might Be Charged A Late Fee.
Name A Place Where You Might Find A Bible.
Name A Place Youd Find Ice.
Name A Good Birthday Gift For A Football Referee.
Name A Good Birthday Gift For A Vampire.
Name A Game Kids Play Where They Choose Sides.
Name A Gift A Child May Give to A Teacher For The Holidays.
Name A Gift That Is Often Re-Gifted.
Name A Gift You Always Get More Than One Of.
Name A Complaint You Might Have About Your Dry Cleaners.
Name A Famous Boxing Movie.
Name A Famous John
Name A Famous Man Named Tim.
Name A Bad Job For Someone Whos Afraid Of Water.
Name A Band Or Singer Living Or Dead With An Old CD You Want For The Holidays.
Name A Cartoon Character That Can Fly.
Name A Company That Makes Really Fast Sports Cars.
Besides Tomatoes, Name Something You Sometimes Find In Spaghetti Sauce.
If They Sold A Hells Angel Barbie, Name An Accessory They Might Sell With It.
If You Have An Unexpected Knock On The Door, Name One Thing You Do Before Answering.
Name A Bad Homemade Holiday Present.
At The Dinner Table, What Food Do Kids Most Like To Play With?
Besides Sugar, Name A Food That Someone Might Be Called As A Term Of Affection.
Besides Bread, Name Something You Put In The Toaster.
Besides Food, Name Something With An Expiration Date On The Package.
Besides Thanksgiving, Name A Holiday You Celebrate With A Lot Of Food.
Name A Career Or Source Of Income That Makes Getting Into Heaven A Long Shot?
Name Something Toddlers Carry Around With Them All The Time.
Tell Me Something A Little Boy Might Do To A Little Girl If He Likes Her.
At A Friends House, How Do You Know They Have A Dog Even If Hes Not Around?
Which Part Of The Body Can Be Used As A Weapon?
Where Might People Carpool To.
Where Might You Take Someone On A Date If You Wanted To See Them In Less Clothing.
Tell Me How Many Beers It Takes The Average Man To Get Drunk.
Tell Me Which One Of Yuor Five Senses You Rely On The Most.
What Is Something That Happens In Bowling That Starts With The Letter S.
Name The Worst Movie Starring Arnold Schwazenegger.
Name The Worst Thing That Can Happen In The Snow.
Name The Toughest Part About Owning An Elephant As A Pet.
Name The Worst Holiday To Be Born On.
Name Something Youll Probably Find In Most Mansions.
Name The Least Private Room In Your House.
Name The Most Difficult Part Of Learning To Drive.
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Start A Preschool In Your Home.
Name Something Youd Never See Donald Trump Without.
Name Something Youd See At The Olympic Opening Ceremony.
Name Something Youd See In A Hotel Lobby.
Name Something You Might Pack In Your Suitcase For A Hawaiian Vacation
Name Something You Might See A Picture Of On a Postcard From Hawaii.
Name Something You Need When Setting A Table.
Name Something You Purchase By The Gallon.
Name Something Thats Done When An Athlete Wins An Olympic Event.
Name Something You Might Ask A Professional To Install In Your Kitchen.
Name Something You Might Buy That Has Instructions Printed In Several Languages.
Name Something You Might Do If Your Car Was Stuck In The Snow.
Name Something That Might Come With Your New Computer.
Name Something That Might Spoil A Snow Skiing Trip.
Name Something That Tastes Best When Grandma Makes It.
Name Something That Attracts Flies.
Name Something That Comes With Your Clothes When You Pick Them Up From The Dry Cleaners.
Name Something That Might Be Pinned To A Shirt.
Name Something People Throw Away Every Day.
Name Something People Use To Decorate Their House For Christmas.
Name Something Santa Asks Children When They Sit On His Lap.
Name Something That Attaches To A Camera.
Name Something People Do With A Christmas Fruit Cake.
Name Something People Put On Top Of A Piano.
Name Something People Do In The Water At A Lake.
Name Something People Do On Your Answering Machine That Drives You Crazy.
Name Something In Your House You Might Only Use In Case Of An Emergency.
Name Something Kids Do During A Long Car Trip To Keep From Getting Bored.
Name Something Most Answering Machines Greetings Tell You.
Name Something Embarrassing You Would Not Want To Happen While Dancing.
Name Something Every Judge Needs To Have.
Name Something Hollywood Could Do To Make Better Movies.
Name Something A Police Officer Might Be Embarrassed To Say He Or She Doesnt Know How To Do.
Name Something A Politician Has To Be Good At.
Name Something A Professional Mover Might Use On The Job.
Name Something About Miss Piggy Thats Different From Most Pigs.
Name Something Eaten At A Luau.
Name Something A One Year Old Spends A Lot Of Time Doing.
Name Something A Person Might Do While Playing Cards That Would Annoy Everyone Else At The Table.
Name Something A Person Might Slide Down On A Snowy Hill.
Name Something A Bracelet Might Be Made Of. (Be More Specific Than Metal)
Name Something A Hollywood Leading Man Needs.
Name Something A Kid Might Complian About At Summer Camp.
Name Something A Kid Might Need To Buy Before Starting A New School Year.
Name Another Word For Courage.
Name Someone Dorothy Met In The Land Of Oz.
Name Someone Who Might Be Dressed In All Black.
Name Something A Bank Robber Would Hate To Be Without.
Name A Word That Describes Your Dream Job.
Name An Actor Who Uses Or Used Their Middle Initials.
Name An Animal That Eats A Lot Of Food.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Would Be Silly To Wear In The Snow.
Name A Type Of Purchase That A Person Might Hide From Their Partner.
Name A Way You Might Be Able To Tell Someone Giving A Speech Is Really Nervous.
Name A Word Or Phrase People Use To Say That Theyre Completely In Love.
Name A State Where It Snows.
Name A Topic Dear Abby Gives Advice About.
Name A TV Show That Might Cause Your Family A Lot Of Embarrassment If They Saw You On It.
Name A TV Show You Might Go On If Youre Having Relationship Problems.
Name A Specific Reason Why People Drink Coffee.
Name A Sport That Is Played During The Fall.
Name A State That Starts With The Letter W.
Name A Room In A Familys Home Where You Are Most Likely To Find An Air Freshener.
Name A Sign That You Might Be Turing Into A Dog.
Name A Specific Dessert Thats Sold At Fast Food Restaurants.
Name A Specific Food Youd Keep In The Refrigerator Crisper.
Name A Specific Fruit You Have To Cut Open To Eat.
Name A Reason Why A Woman Wouldnt Want Her Picture Taken At The Water Park.
Name A Reason You Might Have To Pull Your Car Over To The Side Of The Road.
Name A Reason A Customer Might Ask For Another Table At A Restaurant.
Name A Reason A Family Might Throw A Party.
Name A Reason People Have A Garage Sale.
Name A Reason Someone Might Prefer To Travel By Train.
Name A Professional Sport That Has A Draft.
Name A Popular New Years Resolution.
Name A Present Most Men Would Want For The Holidays.
Name A Present People Buy For Their Dog For The Holidays.
Name A Place Where You Could See A Lot Of Fit People.
Name A Place Where You Go About Once A Year, And Dread It Every Time.
Name A Place Where You Might See A Clown
Name A Habit A Person Might Go To A Hypnotist To Overcome.
Name A Movie Mel Gibson Is Famous For.
Name A Movie With More Action Than Dialogue.
Name A Piece Of Sports Equipment That You Only Use Once.
Name A Place Where Its Always Sunny.
Name A Food That Tastes Great With Mayonnaise.
Name A Form Of Transportation Only A Rich Person Could Own.
Name A Game A Family Plays At An Annual Holiday Gathering
Name A Good Gift For A Friend Whos Moving To Alaska
Name A Good Gift For A Kid Whos Really Into Baseball.
Name A Good Present To Give A Werewolf.
Name A Circus Act That Requires A Net.
Name A Dangerous Occupation Which Probably Shouldnt Observe Take Your Kids To Work Day.
Name A Device With Buttons That You Dont Want Kids To Get A Hold Of.
Name A Famous Fitness Guru.
Name A Fictional Character Who Hates The Holidays.
Name A Bird Usually Associated With Christmas.
Name A Cartoon Character Whos Always Getting Hurt.
Name A Celebrity, Living Or Dead, Who Epitomizes Christmas.
Name A Chain Of Gas Stations.
How Many Toys Does A Child Get For The Holidays?
If Christmas Were In July, Name A Holiday Symbol That Wouldnt Exist.
If You Wanted To Break Out Of Jail, Name Something You Might Tell Your Mom To Bake In A Cake.
Besides CBS, Name A TV Channel That Starts With The Letter C.
Besides Christmas, Tell Me A Holiday That Kids Get Off From School.
Besides Hamburger, Name An Ingredient Youd Find In Hamburger Helper.
Besides Numbers, Name A Button On A Calculator.
Besides Shoes, Name Something People Buy For Their Feet.
How Many Days After Christmas Do People Take Down Their Decorations? (Numeric Only)
We Asked 100 Husbands: Name Something You Wish Your Wife Would Do Less Of Around The House.
Name Santas Biggest Problem.
Name Something You See In Every Public Bathroom.
Name Something Specific A Man Might Be Too Embarrassed To Ask His Wife For.
Besdies Cigarettes, Name Something A Tobacco Store Might Sell.
Besides A Plane, Name Something People Take To The Air In.
On A Scale From 1-10, How Happy Do You Think Most People Are.
Other Than Hello, Which Greeting Do People Commonly Use When Sending A Text Message?
Tell Me A Famous Person With The Last Name Nelson
Tell Me A Good Job For Someone Who Likes To Take Care Of People.
Name Something You Need To Make Brownies
Name Something You See In The Lobby Of Most Office Buildings.
Name Something Youd Find In Almost Every Room Of A House.
Name The Part Of A Body That People Most Like To Have Massaged.
Name Something Thats Often Served With Chips
Name Something You Eat On A Bun.
Name Something You Might Buy From The Reference Section Of A Bookstore
Name Something You Might Find At A Murder Scene That Would Tell You It Was Done By A Carpenter.
Name Something You Might Look Through A Telescope To See.
Name Something People Do In An Employees Lounge.
Name Something People Practice In A Mirror.
Name Something People Set.
Name Something Police Will Give You A Ticket For.
Name Something That Is Often Served With Spaghetti.
Name Something A Movie Director Might Yell Out.
Name An American State Where Frosty The Snowman Would Not Go On Vacation.
Name An Image Often Used In Ads At Christmas.
Name Something A Duck Has That A Human Doesnt
Name Something A Little Boy Might Put On When Hes Trying To Dress Up Like His Daddy.
Name A Fruit Used To Make Jelly.
Name A Gift A Child May Give To A Teacher For The Holidays.
Name A Good Gift For A Professional Boxer.
Name A Present People Give Their Grandfather.
Name A Profession You Shouldnt Go Into If You Have Bad Aim.
Name A Reason A Person Might Not Have A Pet.
Name A Specific Food Or Drink That A Waiter Would Hate Most To Spill
Name A Sport Where You Might Be Barefoot.
Name A College That Smart People Attend.
Name A Famous Jennifer.
Name A Famous Roger.
Name A Food That Pregnant Women Supposedly Crave.
Besdies Stamps, Name Something You Can Buy At A Post Office.
Besides The King, Name Someone You Would Probably Have Seen In A Medievel Castle.
If They Offered A Class On How To Be A Rock Star, Name Something They Might Teach You How To Do.
If Your Husband Had His Say, What Activity Would He Want You To Do On A Romantic Date?
Name A Board Game A Family Might Play Together.
Name Someplace Youd Find A Water Fountain.
Name Something A Woman Does To Change Her Appearance, That She Wants To Look Natural.
Name Something Moses Is Famous For Doing In The Bible.
Name A Place Youre More Likely To Visit If You Have Kids.
Name An Animal People Are Often Compared To When Theyre Eating.
Name An Important Date Some Men Forget.
Name Someone Who Might Weat A Lab Coat.
Name A Child Actor Who Is Still Acting Or Working In Hollywood As An Adult.
If You Were Confronted By A Bear, Name Something You Could Do To Scare Him Off.
Name A Place People Go To Relax
Why Might You Pretend To Be Tired On A Date?
Name A Good Job For Someone Who Loves Animals.
Name Something On Every One Dollar Bill.
Name A Movie With The Word Last In The Title
How Can You Tell That The Ghost Haunting Your House Is A Comedian?
Which Of The Seven Dwarfs From Snow White Best Describes Your Significant Other?
Name A Type Of Entertainer You Might Find Aboard A Cruise Ship?
Name A Job Thats Still More Common Among Women Than Men.
Name Something Popeye Is Known For Doing.
Name Something Specific You Wear To Work That Youd Probably Never Wear To Bed. (Be More Specific Than Work Clothes)
Name Something That Might Turn Your Tongue Red.
Name Something You Pay A Lot For Tickets To See Professionals Do, But Very Little To See High Schoolers Do.
Name The Best Place To Pick Up A New Joke
We Asked 100 Men: What Do Some Women Do To Appear Ladylike On A Date, That You Wish They Wouldnt?
Name Something Youd Need To Be Able To Be A WWF Wrestler.
Name Something People Cut In Half Before Eating.
Name Something People Like To Drink At Bedtime
Name Something People Put Off Doing To Their Cars That They Should Do More Often
Name Something People Race.
Name Something A Pizza Delivery Person Hates About Their Job.
Name Something A Track Coach Might Carry With Him.
Name Something An Artist Uses.
Name Something Insects Can Do That People Might Wish They Could.
Name An Animal That Climbs Trees.
Name An Animal Thats Often Hunted.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Youd Never Wear In Summer
Name Something A Kid Might Bring Home From School That Their Parents Would Be Proud Of.
Name Something A Mother Consistently Reminds A Child To Do.
Name A Profession That Uses Scissors.
Name A Reason A Lifeguard Might Make Everybody Get Out Of The Ocean.
Name A Reason One Dog Might Make A Better Security Dog Than Another.
Name A Sea Creature Youd Be Surprised To Hear Attacked Someone.
Name A Type Of Bread People Order Sandwiches On At A Deli.
Name A Flavor That They Might Add To A Snow Cone.
Name A Fruit You Might Find In A Pastry
Name A Kind Of Machine A Secretary Might Use While On The Job.
Name A Place Where You Might Hear Bells Ringing.
Name A Popular Use For Apples In The Fall.
Which Movie Would You Have To Be Paid A Million Dollars To Ever Watch Again.
Besides A Rose, Name A Type Of Flower A Man Might Give To A Woman.
Besides The Fighters, Name Someone You Might See At A Boxers Match.
Instead Of Walking, Name A Way To Get Around In Snowy Weather.
Name A Brand Of Laundry Detergent You Can Buy At Any Grocery Store.
Name A Complaint You Might Have About The Pizza That Was Just Ordered.
When A Man Wears A Toupee, Name Something He Takes It Off To Do.
When Its Not Love, Name A Word Used To Describe Strong Romantic Feelings.
When Ordering A Hamburger, Name Something You Might Want Extra Of
When People Give Up Smoking, Name Another Habit They May Pick Up.
When Youre Stressed Out, Name The Part Of Your Body Where You Feel It The Most
What Might You Name Your Son If You Wanted Him To Grow Up To Be A Magician.
What Would A Single Guy Have To Learn About Laundry
What Would Be The Most Embarrassing Thing In Your House To Have Dirty When Company Pops Over?
What Would You Be Surprised If It Was Not At A Birthday Party.
Tell Me Something You Can Do With Your Face Thats Considered Sexy.
Tell Me Something You See A Doctor In A Movie Usually Wearing.
Tell Me The Number Of People Who Can Ride Comfortably In A Van. #
Tell Me An Important Document Youd Hate To Lose In A Fire.
Tell Me How Many Items The Allow In Most Supermarket Express Lines.
Tell Me How Old A Woman Is Before She Starts Lying About Her Age. # Only
Tell Me Something That Is Still Classy In Hollywood.
Tell me a kind of food that you order out for.
Tell Me A Way In Which Your Office Is Kinda Of Like A Soap Opera
Tell Me An Excuse A Man Might Give For Showing Up Late For A Date.
Tell Me An Excuse People Give The Police When Pulled Over For Speeding.
Name The Average Age A Pro Athlete Retires (Numeric Only)
Name Type Of Wood Furniture Is Made Of.
On An Airplane, What Do You Hope The Person Behind You Avoids Doing.
Other Than A Drivers License, Name Something For Which Some People Have Photo Id.
Name Something Youd Need If YouRe Making Apple Pie.
Name Something Your House Might Smell Like Around The Holidays
Name The Age Most Middle Age Men Would Like To Return To.
Name Something You See In Front Yards During The Holidays
Name Something You See Lots Of Ads For In A Womens Magazine
Name Something You Wear That Might Be Plaid.
Name Something Youd Hate To Be Without If You Were Climbing Mt. Everest.
Name Something Youd Hate To Notice About Your Clothes Just After You Left The House.
Name Something Youd Hate To See In The Ocean Next To You.
Name Something You Might See At A Chinese New Years Celebration
Name Something You Might See On A Tourist Who Just Came Back From Hawaii
Name Something You Need When Making A Birthday Cake
Name Something You See In A Museum.
Name Something You Might Find In A Police Car.
Name Something You Might Find In A Suitcase That Would Tell You It Belonged To A Surgeon.
Name Something You Might Get At A Movie Concession Stand To Go With Your Popcorn.
Name Something You Might Buy Thats Made In Japan.
Name Something You Might Do Right After Work On Friday.
Name Something You Can Make With Lots Of Pictures ( Wording Not Exact )
Name Something You Do To An Envelope Before Mailing It.
Name Something You Hate Getting In Your Mailbox
Name Something You Have To Put On A Personal Check
Name Something ThatS Weighed On A Scale
Name Something They Might Have In A Hotels Honeymoon Suite You Wish You Had In Your Bedroom.
Name Something Washington, D.C. Has A Lot Of
Name Something You Associate With Superman.
Name Something You Can Buy In The Paper Products Aisle At The Supermarket.
Name Something That Might Ruin A Day At A Popular Amusement Park.
Name Something That People Check Before Using The Bathroom At A Party.
Name Something That Smells Like Smoke When You Come Home From The Bar.
Name Something That Will Happen If You Stop Brushing Your Teeth.
Name Something Thats Usually More Expensive At Department Stores Than At Drug Stores.
Name Something That Happens In October
Name Something That Happens On Every David Letterman Show.
Name Something That Has A Ring Around It.
Name Something That Has Wax.
Name Something That Makes You Squint.
Name Something That Might Ruin A Ballerinas Day While Performing On Stage.
Name Something Specific A Dog Barks At.
Name Something That Can Be Framed.
Name Something That Computers And Sports Cars Have In Common.
Name Something That Dallas Texas Is Known For.
Name Something People Stomp On With Their Foot.
Name Something Really Big That Magicians Make Disappear
Name Something Santa Might Say To A Little Girl Or Boy Sitting On His Lap.
Name Something Specific A Child Might Hold In His Hand At A Carnival
Name Something People Look Forward To All Year Long.
Name Something People Put In Their Yards To Attract Birds.
Name Something People Forget To Do When They Leave Their Car
Name Something People Got To A Professional To Have Cleaned.
Name Something People Have All To Themselves While Single That They Have To Share When Married
Name Something People Know About Darth Vader
Name Something People Know About Michael Douglas
Name Something People Do To Start A Bottle Of Ketchup Flowing.
Name Something People Dont Like To Start.
Name Something People Donate That Can Save A Life
Name Something People Drink Beer Out Of.
Name Something Parents Nag Their Kids About.
Name Something People Associate With Albert Einstein
Name Something People Can Break.
Name Something People Do In An Argument That Isnt Productive At All.
Name Something Old People Spend More Time Doing Than Young People.
Name Something Parents Hope Their Child Can Do By Himself By The Age Of Seven.
Name Something Made From Lemons
Name Something Men Buy To Wear That Dond Try On In A Fitting Room
Name Something Men Enjoy Shopping For.
Name Something Most People Associate With Heaven.
Name Something Most People Do Ever New Years Eve.
Name Something Associated With Jack Nicholson
Name Something Australia Is Known For.
Name Something Bats Do That People Dont.
Name Something Cookies Get Dipped In.
Name Something Associated With Its A Wonderful Life.
Name Something Associated With An Iceberg.
Name Something A Taxi Driver Might Do To Annoy A Passenger
Name Something A Teacher Might Make A Student Do During An Emergency Drill.
Name Something A Ten Year Old Girl Might Take To A Sleep Over.
Name Something A Vegetarian Might Put On A Sandwich.
Name Something An Ant Might Find Annoying About Living In An Ant Farm.
Name Something Angelina Jolie Has That Starts With The Letter B
Name Something A Man Might Put In His Hair.
Name Something A Man Might Try And Fix, But Ends Up Having To Call A Professional For.
Name Something A Parent Might Take Away From A Child Who Is Being Punished.
Name Something A Person Might Do If They Found A Wallet Full Of Money
Name Something A Professional Does For You That You Can Never Do The Same Way Yourself.
Name Something A First Year College Student Might Have To Learn How To Do On Their Own.
Name Something A Knight Needs For A Jousting Match.
Name Something A Liberated Woman Might Resent Having A Man Do For Her.
Name Something A Little Kid Might Do That Would Annoy A Department Store Santa.
Name Something A Couple Might Want To Know About A House Before Buying It.
Name Something A Doctor Might Check During A Routine Exam.
Name Something A Doctor Might Wear While Examining A Patient
Name Something A Dog Might Be Wearing
Name Someone Who Carries A Clipboard
Name Someone Who Wears Gloves
Name Something A Baseball Catcher Might Wear.
Name Something A Baseball Fan Might Be Holding At The Game
Name Something A Construction Worker Would Hate To Forget To Bring With Him To Work.
Name An Animal That Men Are Often Described As.
Name An Excuse Someone Might Give For Why TheyRe Dancing Badly.
Name An Expense On A Business Trip That The Company Would Be Expected To Reimburse.
Name An Insect You See More Of In The Summer.
Name One Reason Someone Might Choose One Rental Video Store Over Another
Name A Way You Can Tell That The Person Youre Talking To Is An Escaped Convict.
Name A Weapon A Scuba Diver Might Use Underwater.
Name A Word That Follows Holy
Name An Actor Who Also Has A Rock Band
Name An Advantage A Truck Has Over A Car.
Name A Traffic Violation That Everyones Committed At Least Once.
Name A TV Show About Police.
Name A Video Games System People Are Buying For The Holidays.
Name A Sport Where The Players Have Very Little Clothing
Name A Teen Celebrity Whos Famous Today.
Name A Term Or Expression That Starts With The Word Bird.
Name A Sport Where The Players Dont Wear A Helmet.
Name A Specific Skill Youd Have To Be Good To Be A Professional Baseball Player.
Name A Specific Type Of Doctor.
Name A Sport That Can Only Be Played Outdoors During The Winter.
Name A Sport Thats Fun To Play But Boring To Watch.
Name A Sign That The Person Youre Talking To Is Drunk.
Name A Song By Madonna That Everyone Knows.
Name A Specific Food That Might Cause Heartburn.
Name A Specific Item An Auto Part Store Sells A Lot Of.
Name A Reason You Might Complain About Your Paperboy.
Name A Relative Youd Rather Not See During The Holidays
Name A Rule You Might See Posted At A Zoo.
Name A Sea Creature That Would Never Fit In Your Home Aquarium.
Name A Reason To See A Movie At Home Instead Of At The Theater.
Name A Reason Why A Woman Might Marry An Ugly Man.
Name A Reason Why You Might Not Wear Wool.
Name A Reason Why Your Partner Might Come Home In A Bad Mood.
Name A Place That Might Be Busy On Valentines Day
Name A Place Where Adults Go To Relax, But Kids Go To Play.
Name A Place You Might Sleep When You Stay At A Friends House
Name A Professional That Charges For Advice
Name A Reason Someone Might Prefer Seeing A Movie In A Theater Instead Of Renting One At Home
Name A Part Of the Body People Stretch Before Exercising
Name a part of the body that starts with the letter B.
Name A Pasta Dish That Ends With The Letter I
Name A Piece Of Personal Information They Might Ask On A Job Application
Name A Place Cars Line Up To Get In.
Name A Number That People Consider Lucky. # Only
Name A Part Of A Motorcycle That It Would Be Tough To Ride Without.
Name A Part Of His Body A Skinny Guy Might Want To Exercise To Build Up.
Name A Movie Or TV Show About Gangsters
Name A Movie That Has Become A Cult Classic
Name A Movie With A Lot Of Dancing
Name A Movie Youd Be Surprised To See A Teenage Boy Watching.
Name A Night Of The Week When People Stay Up Later Than Usual.
Name A Kind Of Court
Name A Kind Of Donut.
Name A Kind Of Hat Men Like To Wear.
Name A Movie Character You Would Hate To Be Stuck With In A Broken Elevator.
Name A Movie Monster, Either Scary Or Nice
Name A Job Where You May Study DNA
Name A Job Where You Might Have To Watch A Monitor.
Name A Job Which Is Busiest In The Summer Time.
Name a kind (not brand) of chip.
Name A Kind Of Boat You Couldnd Pull A Water Skier With.
Name A Good Gift For A Stamp Collector.
Name A Handsome Male Cartoon Character.
Name A Home Appliance Thats Expensive To Replace.
Name A Fancy Word For Barber
Name A Feature You Might Have In Your Car That A Mother Might Like To Have On Her Babys Stroller.
Name A Flavor Shot That You Wouldnt Want In Your Coffee.
Name A Flavor Youd Find In Any Ice Cream Shop.
Name A Food They Serve At The Circus.
Name A Complaint Someone Might Have About A Movie Theater Concession Stand.
Name A Country ThatS Known For A Brand Of Car
Name A Dessert Thats Served Hot.
Name A Famous Newton.
Name a famous man whos known for having a deep voice.
Name A Famous Person, Living Or Dead, With The Last Name Of Davis.
Name A City That Has Great Sports Fans
Name A Classic Pickup Line A Guy Might Use On A Girl.
Name A College That Usually Has A GReat Football Team.
Name A Color Of Underwear A Man Would Never Wear.
Name A Brand Of Beer They Sell At Ever Bar.
Name A Business That Might Be Very Busy On Valentines Day
Name A Cartoon Character Whose Head You Might Find At The Top Of A Pez Dispenser
Name A Celebrity Who Is Often Or Always Known By Only One Name.
Name A City In The Us That People Visit For The Holidays.
In Old Movies, Name Something ThatS Done To Get A Performer To Leave The Stage.
In The Movies, Name Something Indians Wore That Cowboys DidnT.
Name A Body Part That Often Gets Broken.
If You Were Stranded On A Deserted Island, Which Item Are You Embarrassed To Admit That Youd Want With You.
If You Were Turned Into A Spider, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do.
If your car could talk, name something it might complain about.
If Your Car Had A Brain, What Might It Advise You Not To Do.
If You Could Stop Seeing Any Actor, Onscreen Or Off, Who Would It Be?
If You Saw A Group Of People Moving In Synch, What Might They Be Doing.
If You Were Running For President Of The United States, Tell Me An Issue Youd Be Expected To Take A Stand On.
How Many Credit Cards Does The Average Person Have.
If A Bachelor Had To Suddenly Take Care Of A Baby, Name Something Hed Have To Learn How To Do Fast.
If A Baseball Umpire Had A Talking Parrot, Name Something He Might Learn To Say.
Besides The Actors, Tell Me Someone Whose Name Appears At The End Of The Movie.
Besides The Bride And Groom, Name The Most Important Person At A Wedding.
Besides Toys, Name Something A Kid Might Receive At Christmas.
Besides Sand, Name Something YouD Need To Make A Sand Castle.
Besides Swimming, Name A Popular Ocean Activity
Besides Syrup, Name Something Kids Love To Put Their Pancakes.
Besides Football Games, Name An Event That Might Be Held In A Football Stadium.
Besides Olive Oyl, Name Someone We Associate With Popeye.
Besides Pizza, Name Something A Pizza Place Might Serve
Besides Books, Name Something Youd Find In Most School Libraries.
Besides Fish, Name Something Sold At A Tropical Fish Store.
Besides Food, Name Something A Caterer Brings With Them To A Job.
After Thanksgiving, Name A Food You Make All Of The Leftover Turkey
Besdies A Bird, Name An Animal That Has Claws
Besides A Hospital, Name Another Place A Nurse Might Get A Job.
Name Something Pregnant Women Do A Lot Of When Theyre In Labor.
Name Something That Every Movie Theatre, Fancy Or Not, Has.
Name The Best Part Of The Grocery Store To Pick Up A Date
Name A Feature You Have In Your Car That A Mother Might Like To Have On Her Babys Stroller
If Barbie And Ken Broke Up, What Might Barbie Do With All The Extra Time?
On A Bright, Sunny Day, Why Would You Leave The Beach?
Tell Me A Fictional Character That Would Have Been On Santas Naughty List
Name A Breakfast Item That Youd Find On The Menu Of A Fancy Restaurant, But Not Your Local Diner
Name The First Bill You Pay Each Month?
Name A Place Where You Might See Lots Of Police Officers
Name Something That Kids Make Out Of Paper
Name A Place Where Itd Be In Bad Taste To Hit On Someone
Name A Good Material For A Winter Coat
Other Than Stars Salaries, Name The Most Expensive Thing That Goes Into Making A Movie.
Name A Vegetable That Has An Unmistakable Smell When Cooking
Name A Specific Food That You Associate With The South
Name Something There Are Seven Of.
Name A Specific Skill Youd Have To be Good At To Be A Professional Baseball Player.
Name An Event That Takes Place At A Church
What Does A Model Need In Order To Be Successful?
Name Something That Left Handed People Need To Use A Special Version Of
Name An Occasion Where Youd See People Dancing.
At The End Of A Work Day, Name Something Youre Usually Tired Of
Name Something That Costs Twice As Much As It Is Worth.
Name A Reason Why A Baby May Be More Fussy Than Usual.
Name A Reason You Might Wear A Hat.
Name Something In Your House Thats Been Passed Down For Generations
Name A Kitchen Appliance That Is Hardest To Clean
Tell Me A Sign You Might See Posted At A Park.
Name Something A Celebrity Might Go On A Talk Show To Promote
We Asked 100 Husbands! Name A Subject Your Wife Likes To Be The Expert On.
What Might You Do Before Bed If You Dont Want Anything To Wake You Up In The Morning?
Name Something A College Student Would Write Down On A Calendar.
Name Something Cats Have That People Dont
If Apple Pie Lost Its Title As The Food Defining America, What Dessert Might Take Its Place?
What Food Do You Want To Avoid Before Kissing Someone?
Name Something That Goes Well With Pizza.
Name Something You Put On A Chicago Style Hotdog
Name A Pizza Topping A Vegetarian Would Never Order.
Name Someone Who Might Tell You To Lose Weight
Name A Flavor Of Potato Chips
Name Something That Gets Knocked Over When Its Really Windy.
Name Something Youd See A Person Do While Jogging For Exercise, But Never If They Were Being Chased
Name A Food Thats Noisy When People Eat It.
Name An Occupation Whose Workers You Hold To A Higher Driving Standards That Anyone Else.
Name A Book Youd Like To Get As A Gift.
Name Something You Can Buy At A Rock Concert.
Name A Place People Often Keep A Spare Key
Name Something Toddlers Carry Around With Them All The Time
Name A Place Where A Child Makes Friends.
Name Something People Decorate With In Winter To Get In The Holiday Spirit
Name A Place Where You See A Scale
Name A Snack That Goes Great With Coffee.
Tell Me A Name You Might Give Your Pet That Youd Hate To Have As Your Name
Name Something Little Boys Love To Build Models Of.
Name An Actress Who is Or Was A Model
Name A Specific Food That You Eat A Lot Of When Youre On A Diet.
Name Something You Need To Check For If Youre Buying A Dress Used.
Name Something Youd Eat A Lot Of If You Needed To Gain A Quick 10 Pounds.
Name Something A Patient In A Hospital Might Have Trouble Doing On His Own.
Name A Game You Played In Gym Class But Doesnt Offer Much Exercise?
Name A Sport That A Tough Guy Might Think Is Wimpy.
Name A Type Of Online Site That Asks You To Log In.
Name Something You Need In Order To Go Sledding.
Name The Worst Thing About Being On Noahs Ark.
Name A Movie That Has Become A Cult Classic.
Name A Color A Teenager Might Dye Her Hair That Would Annoy Her Parents
Name A Food People Associate With The South
Name Someone Famous Who Plays The Piano.
If Your License Has Expired, How Do You Get To The DMV To Renew It?
Name A Part Of The Body That Starts With The Letter B.
Name Something That Can Be Romantic To Ride On With A Partner
Name Something Most Doctors Carry With Them On Their Rounds.
Name A Less Than Tasty Food Youd Only Eat If You Were Camping
In A New House, What Are The First Things You Unpack Because Youre Sure To Need Them Right Away?
Name Something A Child Would Say Is Too Short.
Name Something A Commercial Hints That Will Happen If You Buy The Product Advertised?
Name An Animal That Lives On Both Land And Water
Name A Food People Serve On A Bed Of Rice.
Name An Animal That You Commonly See At The Circus
What Do You Need To Check To Ensure That Your Car Runs Properly?
Name Something Little Boys Cant Wait To Grow Up And Do.
If You Were Offered A Magic Carpet Ride, Name Something Youd Want To Add To It To Make Your Trip More Comfortable.
Name Something Youre Hoping Is Fake At A Halloween Party Because Youd Be Afraid Of A Real One
Name Something That People Try To Squeeze Themselves Into.
Name A Part Of The House Where Youre Most Likely To Set A Mousetrap.
Besides A Bird, Name An Animal That Has Claws.
Name A Creature That Eats Bugs
Name Something You Might See In Someones Backyard That Would Tell You They Had Kids.
Name Something You See In Horror Movies That Begins With The Letter B.
Even In A Tidy House, Name One Place Where Theres Usually Junk Hidden Away.
Name A Band Instrument That Requires A Player With A Good Set Of Lungs
Name Something A Puppy Likes To Chew On
Name A Place That You Wish You Had The Nerve To Go Alone
Name A Last Minute Problem That Could Make You Late For Work
Name Something You Might Do After A Bad Restaurant Experience
Name A Food That Often Gets Burned
Tell Me Something Fast-Food Employees Always Give You Too Much Of.
Name Someone You Only See Once A Year.
What Might You Do To Avoid Being Approached By A Pushy Salesperson At A Car Lot?
Name Something Of Her Childs That A Mom Would Save Forever.
Name An Expensive Item Thats Often Marked Way Down At A Pre-Christmas Sale
Name Something A Cat Would Probably Do If It Felt Threatened
Name A College Major That Begins With The Letter A.
What Might Somebody Do While Driving That Would Make You Think Theyre Probably Arrogant?
Name Something You Need Coins To Use.
Besides Blueberry Name A Kind Of Muffin People Eat At Breakfast.
Name Something You See On The Set Of Every Game Show
We Asked 100 Wives: Name Something In Your Makeup Drawer That Your Husband Wouldnt Know What To Do With
Unlike A Wedding, Name A Social Event That Youd Never Want To Crash
Name Something People Claim To Have Seen That Others Think is Crazy
Name Something That Grows Quickly
Name One Thing About Yourself That You Wish Would Stay The Same As You Age.
Name Something From Home That You Wish Movie Theaters Had
Name Something An Airplane Has That Your Car Doesnt.
Name A Part On A Car Most People Would Replace Themselves
Name Something That Goes Up And Down
Name Something Kids Might Tell Santa In A Letter To Him
Name An Activity That Requires Moving Your Hips.
Name A Comedian Whose Nose Is Larger Than His Talent.
Name Someone Who Might Be On Your Roof.
Name A Reason You Might Be Glad To Put On A Few Pounds
Name The Age When Youngsters Really Start Rebelling Against Their Parents.
Name The Time Of Day A Person Is Likely To Take A Nap.
During Which Month Of Pregnancy Do Couples Announce It?
Besides For Work, Tell Me How Many Hours You Spend Using Your Computer In One Day. (Numeric Only Please.)
Name A Public Place Where Even An Adult Can Get Lost Easily
Tell Me How Many Hours A Day A Teenage Girl Talks On The Phone
Name Something That Only A Nosy Person Would Look Through
Name Something You Need To Grow A Vegetable Garden
Name A Word Or Phrase Thats Often Followed Up With An Exclamation Point
Name An Activity People Do On Christmas Eve
Name Something You Associate With Andy Kaufman?
Name A Jelly Bean Flavor
Besides Exercise, Name Something A Person Might Do At A Fancy Health Club.
Besides Books, Name Something Youd Find In Most School Libraries
Name A City You Recognize Just By Seeing A Photo.
Name Something Commercial Pilots Cant Fly Without
Name A Word That Begins With Uni-.
Name Something That Might Be Advertised On The Bulletin Board At A College
Name Something A Writer Uses To Work?
Name Something You Might See In A Country Western Music Video.
Name A Store Thats Always Open, Even On Christmas Day.
Name Something Kids Say Theyd Do If They Were An Adult, But That Adults Rarely Do.
Name Something You Hear Cops Say In A Police Movie
Name A Fruit Put In Margaritas.
Name Something A Person Might Do To A Houseplant To Help It Grow.
Name A Furry Critter That Kids Keep In Aquariums As Pets
Name Something A King Would Hate To Be Without.
Name A Board Game People Give As A Holiday Gift.
Real Or Fictional, Name Someone Whos Known For Being A Fast Runner.
Name A Specific Food You Can Get At Almost Every Restaurant
Name Something People In California Might Worry About
Tell Me The First Thing You Do When You Get In Your Car.
Name An Image That Might Appear On Christmas Wrapping Paper
Whats A Job Out Of Work Actors Do?
Name A Movie That A Dog Would Love To Watch
Name A Club Bill Gates Probably Belonged To In High School.
Name Something You Want A Beach To Have
Name A Food That Smells Good When Its Cooking
Name Something A Flight Attendant Sees Everyday
Name A Place That Gets Crowded At The End Of A Work Day.
If There Was A Fire At The Zoo, Name An Animal A Fireman Would Have Trouble Carrying Out By Himself.
Name Something You Can Only Hear In Your House When Everyones Sleeping
Name A Complaint A Door-To-Door Salesperson Might Have
Name A Movie Star You Would Invite For Thanksgiving Dinner.
Name Something That Always Makes You Feel Better When Youre Lonely.
Tell Me An Emotion That Gets Stronger After You Have Children
Name Something That It Is Harder To Do When You Have Too Many Roommates.
Name A Profession Where You Might Be Called A Shark
Name Something That President Obama Has A Lot Of.
Name A Flavor Of Pudding
Name Something You Might Do With Your Fingers But Not Your Toes
Name Something That Can Get Tangled.
Name A Movie That Is Based On A True Story.
Name Something Grown-Ups Sleep With In Order To Feel Secure
Name A Movie Character Who Always Wears A Hat.
Name Something A Woman Might Wish Her Husband Had More Of.
Name Something You Can See At A Kids Birthday Party.
Name Something That Ends With The Word Code.
Name A Food That Gets Bigger When Its Cooked
Name An Ingredient That You Use In Baking, But Would Not Eat On Its Own.
Name Something Youd Need If You Were Making Pancakes
Name Something You Can Buy In The Paper Products Aisle At The Supermarket
Name Something Specific Youd Expect To See In One Of Those New Age Stores.
Name A State That Starts With The Letter N.
Name A Company Which Sends Out Special Holiday Catalog.
Name Something People Associate With Shirley Temple
Name Something You Expect To See When You Watch The Academy Awards.
Name Someplace Youd Find A Water Fountain
Name The Month With The Nicest Weather
Tell Me A Womans Name That Starts With The Letter M.
Name The Easiest Household Chore.
Name Something You Wouldnt Want To Do On A Rope Bridge.
Name An Occupation Where You Might Wear Suspenders.
Name A Pastime Thats Considered More Respectable Than Watching TV.
Name A Nursery Rhyme That Has The Word Little In The Title.
Name A Profession In Which Rain Can Ruin A Days Work.
Name Something A Surgeon Keeps Nearby When He Operates
If Your Car Could Talk, Name Something It Might Complain About.
Name Something Youd Find At Most Amusement Parks. (More Specific Than Rides.)
Tell Me A Slang Word For Underwear.
Other Than The U.S., What Country Is Known For Making Films?
Name The Month Most People Start Shopping For Holiday Presents.
Name A City In Florida
Name Someone Who Wears White Clothes.
Name Something That Might Be Grape-Flavored
Name Something A Child Might Do For Or Give Santa
Name Something That Might Be Orange-Flavored.
Name Something That A Germaphobe Would Hate To Share.
Name An Activity For Which People Wear Boots.
Name Something That Tastes Good With Mustard
Name The Last Country You Would Want To Win A Trip To?
Name Something People Are Said To Break.
Name Something A Person Might Worry About When Speaking In Front Of A Large Group.
Name The Most Expensive Sport For Kids To Participate In.
Tell Me A Cause That A Movie Star Might Support.
Name A Specific Kind Of Pepper People Put In Their Food.
Name Something You Might See At A Cowboys Yard Sale.
Name Something That Begins With The Word Great.
Name A Vegetable That People Like To Steam.
Name Something An Adult Might Take Lessons To Learn How To Do.
Name A Type Of Cheese With A Funny Name.
Name Something You Might Eat For Breakfast In The Car On Your Way To Work.
Name Something Associated With A Princess In A Renaissance Movie.
Name Something You Might See On A Bedroom Ceiling
Name A Game A Family Plays At An Annual Holiday Gathering.
Name Something Specific You Might Order At A French Restaurant.
Name Something You Might Find In A Persons Shopping Cart If Theyre Planning A Romantic Dinner
Name An Expression That Begins With The Word First.
Name Something You Might Do On Vacation In Florida
Name Something You Might Worry About While On A Cruise Ship
Name A Reason You Might Look Forward To November
Name Something People Do At A Bar Besides Drink.
Name Something A Male Rockstar Might Do To Make Himself Look More Rebellious
Name Something A Magician Might Remove From Audience Members Without Them Ever Knowing It Was Gone.
Name A Food That Comes In Packs of Six Or More.
Name Something People Do To Help Them Stay Awake When They Are Tired.
Name A Thanksgiving Item Children Make At School.
Name A Way People Warm Themselves Up When Theyre Cold.
Name Something You have In Your House That You Also Have In Your Car
Name A U.S. City Where It Snows A Lot During The Holidays
Name Something In Your Home You Probably Turn On Every Day.
Name Something You Might Be Hired To Do For A Wedding.
Name Someone Who Might Wear A Lab Coat.
Besides Lettuce, Name Something A Restaurant Might Put In A Dinner Salad.
Name Something You Might See In The Sky That Would Make You Say Ooooh!
Name Someplace You Might Be Where It Would Be Inappropriate To Laugh Out Loud.
Name An Animal People Set Traps For.
Name A Sign That You Television Is Over 40 Years Old
Name Something Guests Do At A Wedding Reception.
Name A Word That Begins With Comp.
Name Something In A Persons House Thats Left On All Night.
Name A Specific Fruit You Have To Cut Open To Eat
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Run For President.
If You Needed Some Fast Cash, Name A Possession You Might Sell
Name A Kind Of Event A Child In A Large Family Might Have To Go To A Lot
Name A Food You Wouldnt Eat With A Fork.
If You Were Going Rock Climbing, Name Something Youd Want To Bring With You
Name Something People Leave On Their Nightstand Before Going To Bed.
Name The Most Gentle Farm Animal.
Name Something That Has Strings On It
Name Something Teachers Give Their Students.
Name Something You Might See At A Church Gift Shop
Name Something You Might Bring To Your Kids High School Football Game
Name A Hairstyle That Starts With B.
Name Something Students Use In Math Class
Name Something You Might Buy At The Airport While Waiting For Your Flight To Take Off.
Who Was The Worst Oscar Host?
Name An Instance In Which Youd Hear Applause
Name A Food You Can Cook On A Campfire.
Name An Animal You Could Recognize Just By Its Nose
Name A Term Youd Use For Someone Who Has A Lot Of Money
If They Offered A Class On How To Be A Rockstar, Name Something They Might Teach You How To Do.
Besides Tomatoes, Name Something You Sometimes Find In Spaghetti Sauce
If You Had To Spend The Night In Your Garage, Name A Critter That Youd Dread An Encounter With.
Name Something People Put On Their French Fries.
Name A Song Made Famous By The Beach Boys
Name A Place Where You Might See A Lot Of Rats
Name A Phrase That Begins With The Word Open
Name A Place Where You Might Find A Frog
Name Something You Wouldnt Want To Lose On The Dance Floor.
Name Something Youd Probably Find In A Babys Bedroom.
Name Something They Give Away Free To Attract Fans At A Baseball Game.
Besides Books, Name Something Thats Sold In A Bookstore
We Asked 100 Single Ladies: Name Something A Guy Should Always Do First Before Asking You On A Date.
Name Something Youd Hate To Forget To Do During A Job Interview?
Name A Kind Of Court.
Name Something That People Get Removed From Their Body.
Name An Expression People Often Say That Ends With The Word Up.
Name A Christmas Story That A Parent Might Read To Their Child.
Tell Me The Age A Man Might Start Losing His Hair. (Numeric Only)
Name The Age Girls Stop Playing With Dolls. (Numeric Only)
Tell Me The Age That Kids Probably Start Using Naughty Language With Their Friends.
Tell Me The Age Of The Average Babysitter
Name How Many People Can Ride Comfortably In The Back Of A Limo. (Numeric Only)
On A Scale From 1-10, How Happy Do You Hope Your Ex Is With Their Life?
Tell Me The Average Number Of Keys The Average Person Carries Around With Them (Numeric Only).
Name Something People Need Good Posture To Do.
Name Something You Associate With Brooklyn.
Name A Superhero Who Doesnt Fly
Name Something People Want For Christmas, That Cant Be Put In A Box.
Name Something You Might See In A Beauty Shop.
Name Something That Might Be Described As Strong.
Name Something Red In The Pizza Parlor Of A Mafia Movie.
If Animals Had Yearly Check-Ups, Name One That Might Be Told To Lose Some Weight.
Which Question Do You Think Is Asked The Most At A High School Reunion?
Name Something Specific A Guy Might Take With Him To The Gym
Name An Animal That Itd Be Unflattering To Be Compared To
Name Something Cartoon Villains Are Always Doing That Lets You Know Theyre Bad
Name Something A Couple Engaged To Be Married Might Go Shopping For.
Name Something About Which People Always Want To Give You Their Opinion
Name Something A Criminal Might Do To Avoid Being Recognized In A Police Line-Up.
Name Something You May Do If You Were Trying To Woo A Cowboy.
Name Something You Can Do In A Van That You Cant Do In A Sports Car.
Name Something People Add To Oatmeal
Name Something That Has An Alarm
What Square Object In Your Home Could You Not Live Without?
Name Something You Associate With Mickey Mouse.
Name A Reason You Would Not Want To Take Up Fishing.
If You Had A Box In The Attic labeled Wedding, Name Something That Would Be In It.
Name A Snack Thats Served At Any Party
Name An Item In Your Home That Youd Need To Reset After Power Had Went Out
Name A Food Many People Have In Their Freezer Right Now
If You Were Going To Fill In For James Bond, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do.
Name Something A Telemarketer Tries To Sell You
Why Would You Call The Doctor If Youre Not Sick?
Name Something That Still Fits Even If You Put On A Few Extra Pounds
Tell Me Something A Man Teaches His Son To Do
Name A Relative Youd Rather Not See During The Holiday
Name A Famous Tower.
What Would The Guinness Award Winner For Longest Fingernails Have Trouble Doing?
Name Something Youd Find Washed Up On The Beach
Name A Gift That Works Well As A Stocking Stuffer
Name A Specific Sound That Has Woken You Up Before You Felt Ready To Be Awake
Name Something A Baseball Umpire Might Keep In His Locker
Name An Object That Kids Pretend Is A Telephone
Tell Me Something Youre Likely To Find At A Hotel Continental Breakfast.
Besides A Wild Cat, Name Something That Roars.
Name Something That Celebrities And Young Children Have In Common
Name Something Parents Worry That Their Kids Do Too Much Of.
Name A Type Of Person That Wears A Name Tag
Name Something You Might Find At An Oasis
Name A Jane Youve Seen On TV
Name Something You Might Do On A First Date That Ruins It.
When Youve Had A Bad Day, Name Something Youre Told To Do To Make You Feel Better.
Name Something People Do While Theyre Waiting For The Doctor.
Name Something A Person Might Do While Eating Breakfast.
Name Something People Do After Theyve Eaten Too Much.
Name Something People Might Have To Do At Traffic School.
Name Something That You Need Silence In Order To Do.
Name Something In A Hotel Room Thats Smaller Than Usual
What Do People Wear To Work Now That Would Have Been Considered Too Informal 50 Years Ago?
Name Something People Do While Theyre Gambling.
Name Something A Kid Might Not Be Allowed To Go In A Swimming Pool Without
Name An Animal Mentioned In The Song 12 Days Of Christmas.
Complete This Sentence. I Could Never Date Someone Who ___s Too Much.
Name Another Word For Lying That Makes It Sound More Innocent
Name A Place Where You Would Not Want To Get Into An Argument With Your Partner.
Name A Place Where A Couple Should Never Fight.
Name Something That Causes You To Have An Upset Stomach.
Name Something You Would Rent, But Probably Not Buy.
Once A Baby Can Crawl, Name Something You Make Sure Is Baby-Proofed In Your House
Name Something A Really Smart Kid Probably Spends His Summer Doing.
Name A Rule A Parent Might Have For When Their Child Goes Swimming
Name Something That Might Be Added To A Rockstars Tour Bus That You Wouldnt Find On A City Bus
Name A Specific Way People Might Enter A Swimming Pool
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Be Able To Retire At 40.
Tell Me A Place Where You Often Have To Pay For Parking.
Name A Sea Creature Youd Hate To Run Into While Scuba Diving.
If You Were Turned Into A Dolphin, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do.
Name A Popular Air Freshener Scent
Name Something That Your Boyfriend Does That Makes You Question Why Youre Still With Him.
Name Something Grandma Might Knit For You As A Gift
What Are Some Milestones That A Baby Reaches In Their First Year?
Name Something That Gets In Your Eye And Irritates It.
Name Something You Cant Wear To Work At An Office Job.
Name A Fairy Tale Character Whose Name Would Cause Her To Stand Out In The Real World.
Name Something That Annoys You When You Ride The Bus
Name Something Puppets Are Unable To Do On Their Own
Name An Animal With A Fluffy Tail.
If Santas Reindeer Couldnt Fly On Christmas Eve, What Mode Of Transportation Might He Use Instead?
Name Something You May Not Be Good At The First Time You Do It.
Name Something People Do In Hawaii That They Dont Do In Alaska In The Winter
Name A Way A Kid Might Get Around Town
Name An Activity Youd Never Do Without Wearing A Helmet
Name A Term That Uses The Word Shot.
Name Something An Impatient Person Might Do While Waiting In Line
Name Something You Might Accidentally Leave In A Department Store Fitting Room.
Name Something You Dread Having Done While At Your Dentist Appointment
Name An Activity That You Wear Comfortable Shoes For.
Name Something You Might See In A Bathtub
Besides Sleep, Name Something Youd Rather Do With The Time You Spend Commuting To And From Work
Name Something People Trade
Name Something That Gets Stripped.
Name A Circus Animal That Looks Better In Costume Than It Does Naturally.
Name Something That Is Different About Writing A Research Paper On A Computer Than On A Typewriter.
Name Something Associated With John Travolta.
Name Something Kids Love To Ride On.
Where Do Many Kids Think That Babies Come From?
Name A Shade Of Blue (Light And Dark Are Not Answers)
Name Something You Can Buy At A Western Store You Probably Cant Buy In A Regular Clothes Store.
If You Were Looking To Get Thrown Out Of Army Boot Camp, Name Something Specific You Might Refuse To Do.
Tell Me Something That Every Country Singer Needs.
Name Something Moms Tell Their Children Not To Climb On.
Name A Unit Of Currency Thats Used In A Foreign Country
Name Something That You Would Buy At A Bakery For Christmas.
Name Something Youd Hate To Land In After Skydiving.
Name Something That Might Make You Throw Up.
Name Something Associated With E.T.
Name Something A Celeb Has To Do Before An Awards Ceremony Starts
Name The Worst Place You Could Have A Sneezing Fit.
Name A Place People Have A Holiday Dinner.
Name Something Associated With Princess Leia.
Name Something That Kids And Some Adults Both Collect
Name Something Men Do In The Bathroom That Really Ticks Women Off.
Name Something Specific That Is Sold By The Bunch.
Name Something Youd See If You Were Trapped In A Dungeon
Name A Job Youd Accept Just To Get Access To The Company Car.
Name Something A Car Cant Run Without
Tell Me A Critter Youd Only Eat If You Were Stranded In The Woods For Weeks?
Name Something A Man Might Do If He Nicks Himself While Shaving.
Name A Cereal That Is Often Use In The Making Of Holiday Treats
Name Something You Really Only Need One Of, But Most Households Have More
Besides The Ball, Name Something You Need To Play Soccer.
Name Someone Kids Write Letters To.
Name Something That Has The Word Pop In It.
Name Something People Know About Paul Newman.
Name Something You Dreaded Talking To Your Parents About As A Teen, And Still Do?
What Might You Encounter On The Freeway That Would Make You Pull Off For A While
Name Someone You Might Call If You Thought Your House Was Haunted.
Name Something A Teen Can Do For Longer Amounts Of Time Than Their Parents.
Name Something You Would Find In A Weather Forecasters Closet.
Besides Skiing, Name Something People Enjoy Doing At A Ski Resort
On Thanksgiving, Name Something Snooki Might Say Shes Thankful For.
Name Something People Do When Theyve Lost A Pet.
Name A Canned Food That Youd Never Eat Directly From The Can
If There Was An Airline Called No Frills Air, Name Something They Might Not Offer Passengers.
What Food Should A Movie Star Avoid Eating Before Doing A Love Scene?
Name A Type Of Item That Might Be Sold Fake By A Street Vendor
Name Something You Might See Next To The Cash Register At A Restaurant
While Driving, Name Something You Have To Keep An Eye On
Name Something Youd Find In A Hearty Stew.
Name A Food That Can be Eaten Directly From Its Container.
Name A Movie Theater Food That Gets Stuck In Your Teeth. Be Specific!
Name A Fruit You Might Find In A Pastry.
Name A Place That, Once You Enter, Its Hard To Leave
Name The Best Place For Single People To Find Each Other.
In Movie Endings, Name A Place The Main Character Goes To Catch Her Crush Before Its Too Late.
Instead Of A Dollar, What Might A Pirates Kid Find Under Her Pillow When She Loses A Tooth?
Name A Way A Student Finds Out It Is A Snow Day.
Name Something A Child Might Have At Their 6th Birthday Party, But Not At Their 16th Birthday.
Name Something That Might Break A Couple Up If They Disagreed About It
Who Would You Call First If Your Car Broke Down On The Side Of The Road?
Name Someone Who Owes You A Big Apology.
Name Something Some Kids Need To Have In Order To Sleep.
Name Something Specific Youd Wear If You Wanted To Impersonate A Woman
What Kinds Of Clothes And Accessories Would You Find In The Closet Of A Truck Driver?
Name A Sound That Causes Dogs To Bark
Name A Specific Place Where Parents Go To Get Away From The Kids For A While
Besides On Top Of A Flag Pole, Where Else Would You See The American Flag?
Name A Job Where You Could Claim Disability If You Lost Your Voice.
Name A Specific Food That You Could Still Eat If You Lost All Your Teeth
Name A Product People Use On Their Hair
Tell Me A Profession That Works Long Hours.
Name Something Youd Find At The Center Of Fancy Chocolates.
Name A Phrase On Signs That Starts With The Word No.
Name Something Associated With The Movie The Sound Of Music.
Tell Me A Holiday You Can Live Without
Name Some Reasons Why Teenagers Want To Get Older?
Name Something That Might Really Annoy Santa When He Comes To Your House.
Name Something People Daydream About
Tell Me A Place Where You Feel The Need To Get Up And Stretch Your Legs.
Name Something People Mean To Do In Their Spare Time, But End Up Watching TV Instead.
Name A Dangerous Hobby You Wouldnt Want Your Partner To Have
Besides Coke, Name Another Kind Of Soda.
What Animals Might You See If You Go On An African Safari?
Name A Holiday You Might BBQ On.
Name Something Most People Bring With Them When They Go To Work
Name A Term Or Phrase With The Word Control In It.
Name Something A Mobster Might Have A Tattoo Of.
Name An Appliance You Avoid Using When People Are Sleeping
Name Something That Gets Delivered To Your Door.
Name A City In The U.S. That People Visit For The Holidays
If Superman Got Old Like The Rest Of Us, Name A Sign That It Might Be Time For Him To Retire
Name Something Kids Play On In A City Park
If A Restaurant Was Going Bankrupt, Name Something They Might Stop Giving Away Free.
Name A Type Of Band.
Name Something Most People Try At Least Once In Their Life.
Name Another Stringed Instrument That A Guitarist Would Probably Be Good At Right Away
Name Something That A Guy From Memphis Is Probably Better At Than A Guy From New York City.
Name Something Shampoo Commercials Claim Their Shampoo Does For Hair.
Name An Item Youd Expect To Find In A Bathroom Cabinet.
Besides Clothes, Name Something People Pack In Their Suitcase When Traveling.
Name Something A Rockstars Dressing Room Is Probably Full Of.
What Type Of Product Has Commercials That Make You Want What Theyre Selling?
Name One Of The Gifts From The Song The Twelve Days Of Christmas
Name Something You Do At The Library.
Name A Popular Childrens Food Thats Sold In Cups
Other Than An Airplane, What Might A Cartoon Character Use To Help Them Fly?
Tell Me A Way That A Babysitter Knows The Parents Are Nervous About Leaving.
Besides A Ring, Name Something Specific A Girl Might Give Back To Her Boyfriend When She Dumps Him.
ame A Reason Why You Might Be Nervous While Driving.
Name Something A Nervous Skydiver Might Do To Distract Himself Before A Jump.
Name Something For Which A Mermaid May Be Jealous Of Barbie.
Name A Food Served With Melted Butter On It. (Vegetables Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
When You Have A Headache, Name Something It Hurts To Do.
Name A Flower That Comes In Different Colors
Name A Place Where Kids Go After School
Name A Way You Might Know Your Neighbors Are On Vacation
Name A Room In The House People Like To Read
Name Your Favorite Type Of Girl Scout Cookie
Name Something You Squeeze Before You Buy It
Name A Part Of The Body Where People Sprinkle Powder.
We Asked 100 Married People: What Do You Do With Your Spouse That Reminds You Why You Fell In Love?
What Would A Pirate Need To Do In Order To Look Presentable For A Job Interview?
Name A Popular Elvis Presley Movie
Name Something You Might Have To Wait For A While On An Airplane?
Name Something A Kids Moustache Is Often Made Of
Name Something You See A Lot Of In The Summer.
Name A Reason Why Someones Voice Might Sound Funny.
Name An Animal With A Long Tail.
Name A Beverage You Might Drink At A Typical Holiday Party
Name Something A Kid Might Do That Would Make You Tell Them Theyre Turning Into A Squirrel.
Name A Drink That Tastes Disgusting When Its Warm.
Name An Occupation Youd Be Surprised To Find A Criminal Had As Their Day Job
Which Type Of Professional Would You Least Like To Get Into An Argument With, Because Youd Never Win?
Name Something Associated With David Letterman
Name Something You Might Find In The Godfathers Basement.
Name Something A Cowboy Wears Thats Made Of Leather.
Name A Brand Of Car Thats Made In America.
Where Do Many People Go To Get Advice On Love?
Name Someone Who You Wish Didnt Have Your Address.
Finish This Sentence: Id Never Stay In A Hotel That Didnt Have _____.
Name A Type Of Magazine That Youd Be Surprised To See A Supermodel Browsing Through
Name Something People Shouldnt Leave Inside Their Parked Car.
Name Something That People Go Through A Lot Of Obstacles In Order To Get
What Christmas Gift Can You Give Someone, Without Going Shopping?
Name A Place Of Business That You Would Not Return To After Only One Bad Customer Service Experience.
Name Something That Needs To Be Fed.
Name An Animal That Would Be An Appropriate Mascot For A Team Of Marathon Runners
Tell Me A Food That Has Hot In Its Name
If There Were Prizes For Good Boyfriends, What Categories Would They Be Rated On?
Name A Piece Of Equipment That Was Once Considered Modern Technology, But Few People Even Own Anymore
Name An Instance When A Parent Might Try To Distract A Child
Name A Word Or Short Phrase That Begins With The Word High.
Name A Holiday Song With A Fictional Character.
What Brand Of Candy Bar Would Make For An Unflattering Nickname?
Name A Piece Of Information That Post People List In Their Personals Ads.
Name A Type Of Footwear That Doesnt Have Laces.
Which Extra Piece Of Clothing Might Wear To A Game Of Strip Poker To Delay Taking Off Your Essentials?
Name Something People Think Rich Folks Do All Day Instead Of Working.
Name Something Specific That Can Smell Like Cinnamon (More Specific Than Sweets.)
Name Something You Buy To Save Money In The Long Run.
Name A Place Where You Might See Lots Of Minivans In The Parking Lot.
Name An Item You Might See In A Movie Stars Home That Wouldnt Be In Yours
Name A Reason You Might Take Your Child Out Of A Movie.
What Kinds Of Things Might People Lie About At Their High School Reunions?
Name Someone, Real Or Fictional, Who Is Known For Being Tall.
Name Something You Might Bite, But Wouldnt Eat.
Name An Activity Kids Do At Day Camp.
Name An Animal Thats Known For Eating Garbage
Tell Me Something Your Spouse Does That Makes You Suspect Theyre Angry At You.
Name Something Celebrities Do When Their Children Are Born That Most Of Us Dont Do.
Name A Cliche People Say About Beauty?
What Might A Teenager Do That Causes Their Parents To Forbid Them From Using The Family Car?
What Would Be The Best Thing About Having An Actress For A Mother?
If You Could Be A Rockstar For One Night, Whats The First Thing Youd Want To Do?
Name An Animal In A Pet Store That Probably Wouldnt Attack Someone.
Name Something People Lie About In An Internet Chatroom.
Name Something People Say Theyll Have Time To Do Once Theyve Retired
Name Something People Do With A Deck Of Cards
Name Something A Child Might Cry Over Losing.
Name An Animal That Has Rough Skin.
Name A Present Most Boys Would Want For The Holidays
Name Something You Need In Order To Be Happy
Name Something That Is Known For Producing A Lot Of Offspring.
Name Something A Married Couple Saves From Their Wedding Day.
Name Something That Gets Delivered.
Name A Type Of Business That You Can Smell Before You See It.
Name A Type Of Gymnastic Move Almost Every Kid Knows How To Do.
Name A Sign That You Might Be Turning Into A Dog.
Name Something People Hate To Find On Their Windshield.
Name A Job Many Husbands Pretend They Dont Know How To Do, Just To Get Out Of Doing It.
Name Something Secretaries Might Be Embarrassed To Say They Dont Know How To Do.
Tell Me A Way You Warm Up Your Hands When Theyre Cold.
Which Olympic Sport Would A Cow Look Most Funny Participating In?
Name Something You Associate With Elvis Presley.
Name Something On A Baby That Might Be Described As Chubby.
Name Something A Country Western Singer Sings About, That A Rapper Wouldnt.
Name Something You Try To Avoid Getting Sand In While At The Beach
Name Something Of Yours That You Might Someday Change Its Color.
Name A Type Of Makeup That Most Women Dont Wear On A Regular Basis.
Name Something Associated With The Cartoon Show The Jetsons.
Name Something You Hate To Find When You Open Your Freezer
Name Something A Teenager Has A Lot Of.
Name Something You Might Hook Up To Your TV.
Name An Ingredient In A Casserole.
Name Something People Do In An Engagement Photo, That They Dont Do In A Mug Shot.
Name Something That People Are Bound To Do In Las Vegas
Name Something People Do With Both Hands.
Name Something Youd Be Nervous To Do As An Actress For Fear That Youd Wind Up On A Tabloid.
Name Something About Hulk Hogans Appearance That Is Traditionally Female.
Name Something That Might Hurt After You Attend A Rock Concert.
Name Something Youd Hate For Your Doctor To Forget Before Operating On You
Name Something A Professional Baseball Player Might Have A Nightmare About.
Name A Famous Doctor (Real Or Imaginary, Living Or Dead) You Would Not Want To Operate On You.
When It Gets Chilly Outside, But You Dont Want To Turn On The Heat, What Do You Do?
Name Something A Student Has To Do When Running For Class President
Name Something From Childhood That Many People Save.
Name A Character That Shows Up In Every Church Christmas Play
Name Something You Wonder About An Ex Whom You Havent Spoken?
If There Is A Doggy Heaven, Name Something It Probably Has A Lot Of.
Name Something Found On The Bottom Of A Shoe.
What Would You Hate To Live Next To, Because The Noise Would Prevent You From Sleeping?
If You Go To Sleep With The Windows Open, Name A Sound That Might Wake You Up.
Name Someone Whose Orders Should Be Followed.
Name Something A College Student Might Hide Before His Parents Came To Visit
How Can You Tell One Car Apart From Another Of The Same Model And Year?
Who Do Many Celebrities Thank After A Win At An Awards Show?
Name Something Kids Like To Throw At Each Other.
Name Something People Associate With An Undertaker.
Name Something A Teen Might Cover Up So Her Parents Dont See It.
Name Something A Housekeeper Should Not Open
Name A Book You Carry Around To Impress Someone Else.
Name Something People Do With Their Index Fingers
Name An Actor Who Often Plays A Bad Guy.
Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Have Cake On Your Birthday.
Name Something Thats More Important To A Teenager Than To An Adult.
Name Someplace A Child Goes That Might Be Traumatic The First Time
Name An Actor Who Looks Better Bald
In The Bible, Name A Creature Noah Would Have Had The Hardest Time Capturing Two Of For His Ark.
What Might A Mail Carrier Keep On Hand To Deal With Unfriendly Dogs?
Name Something People Do When Theyve Lost Their Temper
Tell Me Something In A Teenagers Room That They Wouldnt Want Touched
Name Something Dogs Get More Excited About Than Humans Do.
Tell Me A Mans Name That Starts With The Letter T.
Name A Job In Which You Need To Dress Well In Order To Succeed.
Name Something That Changes Every Year For A Kid In Elementary School
Name Something That You Dont Want Your Dog To Chew On Over The Holidays
Name Something Youd Find On A Cruise Ship, But Not On A Regular Boat
Name Something From The Ocean That Youd Never Find On A Restaurant Menu
Name An Occasion Where Parents Force Their Child To Wear A Certain Outfit.
Name A Toy That Might Be Operated By Remote Control.
Name A Sport That Takes Place In The Water.
Name Something A Person Does To Warm Up Their Hands.
Name A Type Of Sandwich Youd Expect To See In New York City.
Name A Profession Where You Get To Wear Boots All Day
If You Were In An Eating Contest, Tell Me The Food That Would Be Hardest To Eat Without Breaks For Water.
Other Than Clothing Store, Name A Type Of Business You Find In A Mall
Name Something That Would Be Hard To Steal From A Hotel Room
Name Something You Wish For While Waiting For The Doctor In An Exam Room
Name Something That A Person Might Change Many Times Throughout Their Life.
What Might You Find Out About A Man That Would Make You Think He Wasnt Ready To Commit?
Name Something That Plugs Into Your Computer.
Name Santas Biggest Problem
Name The Magazine Cover Youd Most Like To Appear On
Name A Sauce You Put On Meat.
Name An Expression With The Word Kick In It
Name Something That Little Girls Do When They Get Together
Name An Accessory That Some People Want In A Designer Brand.
What Might You See In A Personals Ad That Would Make You Think It Was Placed By Superman?
Name A Vehicle That Has A Loud Engine
Name Something In A Womans Purse That She Might Lend Out And Not Get Back.
Which Of Your Usual Bills Increase Over The Holidays?
Name A Household Appliance You Would Actually Enjoy Receiving As A Gift.
Name Something You Keep In Your Pocket Or Purse Just In Case.
Name Another Word For Kiss
Name An Activity That Involves A Paddle
Name Something Noah Might Have Worried About During His Voyage On The Ark.
Name Something In Your House You Could Not Live Without
Name A Profession Where An Engaged Woman Might Remove Her Extravagant Ring Before Work.
Name A Specific Smell From A Diner In The Morning That Makes You Want To Go In
If You Were Friends With Nancy Drew, What Might You Buy For Her Birthday?
Name The Best Place To Be On A Winter Night
Name A Woman In A Mans Life Who His Wife Might Not Get Along With.
Name Something You Expect To See Inside Every Hotel Room
What Might You Hear In A Weather Forecast That Would Keep You From Going Outside?
Name A Sound You Hear A Lot Of In A High School Hallway
Name Something People Usually Keep From High School
Name A Way You Know Youve Arrived In New York City
Name A Reason You Might Suspect Youre Becoming A Martian.
Name Something Both Men And Women Use To Keep Their Hair In Place.
Name An Act Of High School Rebellion That You Cant Imagine A Kindergartener Doing.
Name Something Youd Never Wear To Work Out At The Gym.
Besides A Camera, What Should You Pack For A Trip To The Rainforest?
Name Someplace You Might Hear An Echo
Tell Me How Many Items They Allow In Most Supermarket Express Lines. (Numeric Only)
Name A Grown-Up Activity Kids Do When Theyre Playing Pretend
Name A Word That Youd Probably See In A Vacation Brochure For Hawaii
Name Something People Dont Like To Start
Name A Type Of Fish A Restaurant Might Feature As Catch Of The Day.
What Movie Would You Never Watch Alone?
Name Something You Do To A Chicken Before You Cook It
Name A Button Youd Find On A Video Camera
Name A Specific Place Where It Usually Doesnt Do Any Good To Argue
Besides Eat, Name Something A Person Might Do On Their Lunch Hour
Name A Type Of Bread People Order Sandwiches On At A Deli
Name Something That Teenagers Spend More Time Doing Than Adults
Name Something That Almost Anyone Can Cook.
Name A Shakespeare Play Which Was Made Into A Movie
Name A Fruit People Put In Cakes
Name Something You Shouldnt Have For Lunch Right Before A Driving Test
Tell Me Something A Cab Driver Gets Sick Of His Passengers Doing.
Name A Company That Makes Sport Utility Vehicles
Name A Phrase That Begins With The Word Jump.
Name A Movie That Wasnt Nearly As Good As The Book
Name Something You Do Before Party Guests Arrive.
Name Something That A Germophobe Would Hate To Share
Name One Thing People Wear On New Years.
Name Something Your Mother Made You Do That You Would Also Have To Do In The Army.
Name Something That Gets Delivered By Trucks.
Name The Hardest Musical Instrument To Learn How To Play
Name The Room In Your House Thats Used The Least.
Name Something People Know About Luke Skywalker
Name Something That Has A Tip
Name Something Embarrassing That Might Happen While Youre Laughing
Name Something Specific A Woman Looks At When She First Meets A Man On A Blind Date.
Name Someone You Wish Wouldnt Call So Often
Name An Accessory That Might Be Sold With A James Bond Action Figure.
Name A Sport In Which The Athletes Dont Wear A Lot Of Clothes.
Name Something People Remember About The TV Show Cheers.
Name Another Word For Fake.
Name A Gift A Child May Give To A Teacher For The Holidays
Tell Me The Worst Part About Going To The Beach
Tell Me The Latest Hour You Could Drink Coffee Without It Affecting Your Ability To Fall Asleep.
Name Something In Your House You Wish Were Just A Little Bit Bigger
Name Something Thats Taught In The First Grade.
Name Someone Whose Phone Calls You Try To Avoid.
Name Something People Dig Up.
Name Something A Baseball Player Might Be Holding During A Game.
Name A Color You See A Lot Of In Mobster Movies
Name Something A Person Uses To Wipe Their Mouth With.
Tell Me A Street Name Found In Almost Every Big City.
Name An Occasion That A Man Might Propose To His Girlfriend
Name A Card Game That Takes A Long Time To Play.
Name Something You Might Be Asked To Do At The Doctors Office
Name Something Associated With Donald Trump.
Name The Worst Part About The Lavatories On Planes
Name Something Specific That Doesnt Get Cleaned Between Flights On An Airplane
Name A Sign That A Tornado Is Coming.
In a large family,what often gets mixed up with that of your siblings?
Name A Famous Character Who Is Never Seen Without His Mask.
Name Something Youd Be Turned Off To Hear Your Date Bragging About.
Name A Reason A Person Might Wear Their Pajamas Outside.
Name A Sauce You Wouldnt Put On Ice Cream.
Name Something People Wear To Protect Themselves.
Name A Way You Can Tell That Someone Was Just At The Beach
Tell Me A Place Where Its Easy To Make Friends.
Name Something A Grown Man Might Be Embarrassed To Admit That He Collects.
Besides Lights, Name Something In Your House That Wouldnt Work If The Electricity Went Out.
Name A Nickname For A Skinny Person
Name Something Every Professional Boxer Needs.
Name Something Tarzan Might Do That Could Get Him Thrown Out Of A Nice Restaurant
What Might You Find Inside A Book That Tells You It Was Meant For Children?
Name Something Parents Think Their Teenage Son Spends Too Much Time Doing.
Name Something You Might Find Under A Rock.
Besides chicken,name something you associate with Kentucky Fried Chicken.
Name Something A Person Might Read Everyday
Name An Occupation Where You Work In A Studio.
Name Something You Might Do If Your Friend Got Bitten By A Snake
Name A Reason A Casino Dealer Might Complain About Someone At Their Table
Tell Me A Girls Name That Begins With S.
Name Something Cowboys Are Good At.
Name Something Associated With The Wizard Of Oz.
Name Something You Cant Do Until Youre A Certain Age.
If A Movie Was Really Terrible, Name Something You Might Do In The Theater To Pass The Time.
Name Something You Use In The Bathtub, that Youd Look Silly Bringing Into A Jacuzzi
Name something you might see at a bus stop.
Besides Spaghetti, Name A Type Of Pasta.
Name Something You Do To Keep Yourself From Laughing.
Name A Job Where You Might Have Your Name On The Front Of Your Shirt.
Name something you dont want to have happen during a moment of silence.
Name A Job Which Is Busiest In The Summer Time
Name Something A Pirate Has To Take Off Before He Goes To Bed
Which Style of Music Would Be Least Effective To Sing When Putting Your Baby To Sleep?
Name A Position Played In Baseball Game.
Tell Me Something That Responsible Adults Do On A Regular Basis
Name Something A Kid Might Do That Would Get Them Kicked Out Of A Public Swimming Pool
Name Something A Zombie Might See A Doctor About
Name An Occasion For Which People Often End Up Overspending
Name An Advantage Of Working At Home.
Name An Occupation Where You Often See People With Stiff, Hairsprayed Hair.
Besides Photos, Name Something Someone Would Include In Their Scrapbook.
Name a reason a husband might send his wife flowers.
Name Something Thats Expensive Even When Its In Used Condition.
Give A Word Frankenstein Would Use To Describe Himself In A Personal Ad.
Name A Word People Use To Describe Someone Whos In A Bad Mood
Something In A Womans Purse Thats Not In A Mans Wallet.
Name A Job, Often Depicted On TV, That Youve Dreamt Of Having Yourself.
Name Something You Make For Dinner When Youre Short On Time.
Name Something A School Might Forbid Students From Wearing.
Name Something A Celebrity Might Discuss On A Talk Show
As A House Guest, Name Something In The Hosts Bathroom That You Assume You Can Use
Name A Type Of Pet That People Rarely Take Out Of Their House.
Grey Hair On Older Men Is Distinguished. What Happens To Aging Men That Isnt Distinguished?
Name Something In The House That You Might Not Use When People Are Trying To Sleep.
Tell Me A Fictional Character Whose Name Includes The World Little.
Name a good gift for a lifeguard.
Name A Way Children Submit Their Wishlists To Santa.
Name Something You Do At Home, But Not While Staying In A Hotel.
Name A Household Chore That You Do Your Best Thinking While Doing
Name Something About Babies That Makes You Think Twice About Becoming A Parent.
Name A Person Whos Last Name Is Johnson.
We Asked 100 Women: Name The Item In Your Purse That A Germophobe Would Say Needs To Be Disinfected
Who Wears A Uniform With Shirt And Pants Of The Same Color?
Name Something You Eat By The Handful. (Be Specific Candy Is Not An Answer.)
Name A Weather Term That Can Also Describe Your Wife.
By What Method Might A Woman Make The Announcement That Shes Pregnant?
Name Something An Employee Might Be Scolded About That Isnt Directly Related To Job Performance.
If Your Local Gym Was Run By 5-Year-Olds, What Classes Would You Take Instead Of Pilates?
Name Something A Truck Driver Might Have To Go Without For A While.
If A Woman Was To Marry Tarzan, Name Something She Would Have To Get Used To
Which Sport At The Olympics Would The Average Person Off The Street Be Most Competitive At?
Name A Design You Often See On Socks, But Not On Sneakers
Name Something Youd Buy If You Wanted To Dress Up Like Fidel Castro
Name Something Specific You Might Wear To Bed If Youre Really Cold
Name A Musical Instrument That Is Soothing.
How Can You Tell That Your Date Isnt Interested In The Movie?
Who In Your Personal Life Would You Least Expect To Swindle You?
Name Something You Were Afraid To Do For The First Time.
Besides Jewelry, Name Something A Person Might Wear Around Their Neck.
Name Something About Winnie The Pooh That Is Different From Real Bears.
Name Something Specific Youd Probably See On A Brochure For Las Vegas.
Name Something You Keep In An Ice Chest. (Food Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Name A Kind Of Cat You Probably Wouldnt Keep As A Pet
Name Something You Wouldnt Want To Happen When Youre In The Bathtub
Name A Measurement A Man Probably Doesnt Know About His Wifes Body.
Whats The First Symptom You Get When Starting A Cold?
At The Grocery Store, Name Something A Kid Is Told Not To Do.
Which Talk Show Host Would You Like To Have Interview You?
Why Might Someone Refuse To Use A Swimming Pool?
Name A Really Long Movie
Besides Pants, Name An Article Of Clothing That Might Be Made Out Of Denim.
If You Went Back In Time 10,000 Years, Name A Luxury Item Youd Probably Miss.
Name A Place You Wait Where It Could Be Awkward To Make Too Much Small Talk With Others
Name A Christmas Movie People Are Tired Of.
If Which Profession Do You Often Find People With Wacky Hair?
Name Something Couples Do Months In Advance To Prepare For Having A Baby.
Name Something People Need Change In Order To Pay For.
Whats The First Thing New Parents Buy After Finding Out Theyre Having A Baby?
Name something a ballet dancer has that most people do not.
Name Something Specific You Might Borrow From Your Coworkers Desk That Youre Least Likely To Return
Name Someplace People Go To Help Them Think.
Name A Child Star Whos Still Famous Today.
Name A Part Of Grooming That Youd Spend More Time On Before A Big Date.
What Might An Overboard Soccer Mom Do At A Game That Causes Her To Be Thrown Out?
Name Something In Your Kitchen That Youd Use As A Musical Instrument.
Name A Beverage Served At Fancy Restaurants. (Alcohol Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Tell Me Something You Watch For Out Of Your Plane Window
Name An Animal That Could Probably Beat Carl Lewis In A Race
Name Something People Do To Cure An Aching Back.
According To Commercials, What Product Should A Man Buy In Order To Have Women Flock To Him?
Name A Comic Strip You See In Almost Every Newspaper.
Name Something Associated With Fabio.
Name Something That Kids Play In But An Adult Would Not.
What Might You Find Out About A House That Would Make You Back Out Of Buying It?
Where Would You Find An Adult Hanging Out,If He Refused To Grow Up?
What Might You See Out Your Airplane Window?
Name A Phrase That Starts With Life Is.
Name Something You Hope That The People Youre Housesitting For Have In Their Home.
Tell Me The Age That A Girl Stops Telling Her Parents Everything (Numeric Only).
Tell Me How Many Days It Takes A Man To Grow A Beard. (Numeric Only)
Tell Me The Age When A Girl Should Be Allowed To Start Dating. (Numaric Only)
Name Something A Supermarket Keeps Refrigerated Or Frozen.
Name Something You Might Learn How To Do In The Boy Scouts
Why Might Someone Dislike A Family Feud Question?
Name Something Or Someone Associated With The Addams Family.
Name Something Specific Inside Your Car That You Might Ask The Car Wash Guys To Clean.
Name An Animal At The Zoo You Can Recognize Just By Its Sound.
Name A Game That You See People Playing In The Park
Besides President, Name A Political Office People Run For.
If You Could Have A Movie Star Narrate Your Life, Whose Voice Would You Choose?
Name A Clothing Designer Whos World Famous.
Which Class Do Students Take In College Thinking It Would Be An Easy A?
Name One Of Santas Reindeer
Name A Toy Parents Have To Put Together.
Name The Author Living Or Dead Who Writes The Scariest Stories.
Name a food that comes in a box.
Name A Place Where They Always Keep You Waiting.
Name Something A Kid Might Need To Buy Before Starting A New School Year
Name A Place Where You Might Have A Friendly Conversation With A Total Stranger.
Name Something You Put On Before Going Out Into The Snow.
Name Something Or Someone Associated With The Partridge Family.
Which Country Would You Want To Become The 51st American State?
Name Something People Keep In Their Car For Emergencies.
Name Something Grown-Ups Have To Do That Babies Dont.
Name Something A Clown Might Be Carrying
Name Something Baseball Players Do While Theyre In The Dugout.
If You Asked A Six-Year-Old, Name Something Theyd Tell You About The Moon.
Name A Place Where You Nap Just To Pass The Time.
Whos An Actor That Hails From Canada,Eh?
Name Something People Give As A Housewarming Gift.
Name Something The Police Use To Identify A Criminal.
Name An Actor Or Actress Who Commands A High Salary To Be In A Film.
Name A City With A Lot Of Pollution
Name Something You Wish People Wouldnt Do In An Elevator.
Name Something A Person On A Diet Might Eat For Breakfast.
Name A Place Where Beverages Are Always Overpriced
Tell Me A Part Of A Bicycle That Would Be Tough To Ride Without.
Name Something Pilgrims Wear
Besides The Star, Name Someone That Might Ride In A Rock Stars Tour Bus.
Name A Celebrity Who Is Often Photographed Off-Screen With Children.
Name A Vegetable That Is Not Green
Name Another Word For Toilet
Besides Toys, Name Something A Kid Might Receive At Christmas
Name Something Youd See At A Gas Station.
Name A City That Has A Lot Of Hotels.
Tell Me How Long In Months A Couple Must Be Dating Before Its Considered Serious.
If Madonna Were To Make A Snowman, Name Something She Might Put On It.
Tell me the average temperature in Fahrenheit at which people set their thermostat.(NUMERIC ONLY)
Tell me an age when girls start thinking about boys.(Numeric only)
Name something that might be hard to do while pregnant.
Name something about her infant son that a new mother talks about often.
Other than actor,name an occupation youd fail at if you had stage fright.
Name someone Dorothy met in the Land of Oz.
Name something people brag about.
Name something that a woman might wear in bright colors.
Name someone in your life who you hope never writes a tell-all book.
What might a wash machine do that would make you get rid of it?
Name something you do at an office holiday party.
If someone hates to cook,name a dinner that they probably eat often.
Name something that even adults hate to share.
Tell me something many wives encourage their husbands to do as they get older.
Name an animal that weighs a lot.
Name a job youd have a hard time doing if you couldnt type well.
Name a common potato chip flavor.
Name something that gets thrown.
Name something youd need if you were going to be a private eye.
Name something that many women wish their husbands could talk about.
Name a type of business that does best during the summer.
Name something youd put on your table when having a dinner party.
How can you tell that a dog is still a puppy?
Name a specific place where you hated to run into a school bully.
Name a dangerous hobby you wouldnt want your partner to have.
Name something that starts with the word Instant.
Name something you see in every Star Wars movie.
If your body aches,tell me what a possible cause might be.
Besides clothes,name something the 50 Foot Woman might have trouble finding in her size.
Name something a girl would need if she wanted to impersonate an elderly woman.
Name a prop you may hold in an Olde Time photograph at the fair.
Name a fruit that people drink juice from in the morning.
Name a piece of protective gear that only a real klutz would consider wearing while walking.
Name something many people learned to do from their Dad.
Name a profession that would be most difficult to perform while 8 months pregnant.
Name something your wife asks you to do that your Mom also asks you to do.
Name an animal that you wouldnt want to escape from the zoo.
Name something you do when looking in the mirror that youd hate to be caught doing if it was a 2-way mirror.
What do you do when having a bad hair day?
Name someone who has/had many followers.
Name a place where it would be rude to laugh.
Name a characteristic of a pub that you wouldnt want for your home.
In a Secret Santa exchange,what gifts might you get from an office thief?
Name something associated with Jiminy Cricket.
Name a New Years TV host.
Other than your family members,from whom would you accept criticism?
Name something you associate with Elmer Fudd.
Name a specific food that doctors tell patients to cut down on.
Tell me a piece of information that your neighbors are more likely to know about you than your coworkers are.
Name something women do to their hair.
Name a U.S. city that begins with the letter B.
Name a place in your house that you dont bother decorating.
Name a kind of boat that doesnt have an engine.
Name something you might do if you heard a burglar in your house.
Name an animal whose head you might see on the wall of a hunters den
Name something tourists see while visiting Italy.
Name something you wear that you should never spend more than $20 on?
Name a takeout food a family might have for dinner.
Name something that Godzilla would crush at Disneyworld.
Name a movie character you would hate to be stuck with in a broken elevator.
Name another word for Tired.
Name a U.S. city that starts with the letter P.
Tell me something youve accidentally dropped in the toilet.
Name a movie featuring a horse.
Name something you might see in a High School shop class.(Tools is not an answer,be more specific)
Name something you probably would see in New Yorks Central Park.
Name something thats sold at an airport gift shop.
Name something specific you might have insured.
Name a fish that tastes good grilled.
Name something that takes a long time to dry after it gets wet.(Clothes is not an answer,be more specific.)
When ordering pizza,name something extra you might ask for.
Name something campers might take with them for emergencies.
Name a smell typically associated with Christmas.
In the heat of the moment,what might happen that could ruin it?
Name A Place That You Need An ID To Enter.
Tell me how many months it takes before a dog is house trained.(Numeric Only)
What Should A Spy Avoid Wearing, If He Doesnt Want To Be Identified By His Profession?
If You Were Filling In For Santa, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do.
Name A Famous Cartoon Animal That You Wouldnt Want In Your House If It Was Real.
Name The Heaviest Item You Buy At The Supermarket.
Name something you associate with Mickey Mouse
Name A Company That Uses An Animal In Its Logo.
We Asked 100 Wives: If Your Husband Were The Incredible Hulk, Tell Me What Would Turn Him Into A Monster.
Name Something People Remove From Their Lawn.
Name A Complaint A Customer Might Have About A Bar Theyre At.
Other Than Swimsuits, Name Something People Wear To The Beach.
What Item Do People Always Keep Inside Their Cars?
Name Something Models And Wrestlers Both Do.
Name An Animal Thats Often Described As Beautiful.
Name Something You Would Want To Run Over With Your Lawnmower.
Name A Reason A Kid Might Get Sent Home From School.
Name Something You Might Do To Make Yourself Feel Cozy After Playing In The Snow All Day.
Which Activity Would A Celeb Least Like To Be Photographed Doing?
Name Something A Mother-To-Be Might Ask Her Friends Advice On Before The Baby Is Born.
Name Something Your Dog Might Do That Would Make You Think He Was Part Cat.
Name A Modern Device That Older People Have Trouble Using
Name Someone Who Has To Wash Their Hands Frequently.
Name Someone Who Wears White Gloves.
Name A Phrase That Starts With The Word Prime.
Name Biggest Event In A Teenagers Life
Name Something You Did As A 5-Year-Old That Youd Be Embarrassed To Do Now.
Name Something Contagious That Kids Sometimes Catch, But Adults Seldom Do.
Name Something You Wear That Might Be Plaid
Name Something Every UPS Driver Should Have
Name The Month When TV Networks Start Airing Reruns.
Finish The Sentence: Hold Your _____.
Name Something A Small Town May Lack.
Name Something That Begins With The Word Dirty.
Name A Legendary Creature That Would Be A Huge Hit If Featured At The Zoo.
Name Something Some People Do By Hand, While Others Use A Machine.
Name Something An Amusement Park Has A Lot Of.
Name A Food That You Become Very Thirsty While Eating.
Instead Of Get A Job, Name Something A Person Might Do After College.
If Or Out Of The Dentists Chair, Name Something The Dentist Warns Not To Do.
Unlike Dogs, Name A Type Of Pet That People Dont Count On To Guard Their House.
If You Went Out With Santa Claus, What Might You Do On Your First Date?
Name Something You Might Buy For A Golfer.
If You Played Superman In A Movie, Name Something Specific Youd Have To Wear.
Name Something You Might Cut Out Of Your Morning Routine If You Were In A Big Hurry
When Drawing A Person, Which Specific Part Is The Hardest To Draw Believably?
Name Something A Gardener Might Use On The Job.
Name Something People Keep Near Their Favorite Easy Chair.
Name something a parent criticizes their child for doing too fast
Name A Job That Ends With The Word Guard.
Name A Food You May Find In Someones Home Garden.
What Might An Actor Do To Cure Stage Fright?
If American Idol Had An Animal Competition, Which Animal Would Have The Best Chances?
If A Husband Found Out That His Wife Had A Bad Day At Work, Name Something He Might Do To Make Her Feel Better.
Name Something People Do When They Want To Look Better. (Makeover Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Name Something That You Have To Do Sometimes That Billionaire Has Probably Never Done.
Name A Celebrity Who Could Teach A High School Dance Class.
Name A Chore People Do Most Often.
Name A Board Game That You Wouldnt Play If You Only Had An Hour.
Besides Maple, Name A Flavor Of Syrup.
Name Something People Buy, And Then Dont Know How To Use.
Name Something A Little Girl Needs To Look Like A Princess.
Name An Animal With Really Long Legs.
What Is The Worst Thing To Forget On A Camping Trip?
Instead Of A Horse, Which Animal Is It Hard To Imagine A Cowboy Riding?
Name A Sport In Which The Announcers Get As Excited As The Fans.
Name A Person In Your Life Who It Would Be Unwise To Live With.
Name A Pubic Place Where You Take Off Your Shoes.
Name A Pet That Makes A Good Holiday Gift
If You Were Stranded On A Tropical Island, Name Something You Might Have To Eat.
Who Or What Would You Not Want To Meet In The Middle Of A Hiking Trail?
Name A Type Of Service Person Who You Never Know How Much To Tip.
Name An Animal That Children Are Excited By At The Zoo.
Name Something College Roommates Might Argue About.
If You Wanted To Impersonate Mary Poppins, What Would You Do?
Name An Activity That Could Be Described As Wholesome.
Name Something People Guess The Weight Or Volume Of In Order To Win A Prize.
Tell Me A Name That Could Be Used For Either A Man Or A Woman.
Name The Most Stressful Holiday.
Name A State People Visit During The Winter.
Tell Me A Reason Why A Person Might Be Awake At 3AM.
If All Else Fails, Name Something People Get For Dad For The Holidays.
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Miss Their Exit While Driving On A Freeway.
Name Different To Use Left Over Turkey
Name Something You Find On A Fast Food Burger.
Name Something You Might Use Bricks To Build.
Name Something Hawaii Is Known For.
Besides numbers,name a button on a calculator
Name A Person You Wouldnt Kiss Under The Mistletoe.
Name Something Specific You Need If You Want To Make Coffee For Your Guests.
Name A Type Of Beverage You Are Allowed To Drink While Driving.
Name A Bad Job For Someone Whos Afraid of Dogs.
Name Something People Put Toothpicks In. (Food Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Name The Best Flavor Of Popsicle.
Besides White Christmas, Name A Song On Big Crosbys White Christmas Album.
Besides On The Job, Name Another Life Situation Where Youve Wished You Had Earplugs.
Name A Food That Its Hard To Keep Your Face Clean While Eating.
Name A Famous Movie Monster You Might See In A Black And White Film.
Name Something A Movie Stars Kid Might Get As A Birthday Present.
Name Something Youll Find On The Breakfast Menu, No Matter What Kind Of Restaurant Youre At.
Tell Me A Reason You Exit The Freeway.
Name Something The President Might Say Is Too Long.
Name Something Thats Often Brought Into A Pawn Shop.
Name Something Hawaiians Do To Celebrate Winter
Name A Gift That Most Women Like To Get.
What Animal Would You See At A Farm, But Never Consider Keeping For A Pet?
Besides Biographies, Which Section Of A Bookstore Would A Memoir About Your Life Belong In?
At The Beach, Name Something That Might Protect You From Sun.
Name An Instrument That Youd Need To Be Really Coordinated To Play.
Name Something You Can Get From Your Parents, But You Can Change As An Adult.
Name Something Adults Buy That Can Be Very Small Or Very Large.
Name A Subject You Count On Your Partner To Give You Advice On.
Name Something That Makes You Burp.
Name Something That A Man Teaches His Grandson To Do.
Name Something You Need In Order To Make A Garden.
Name Something That Kids Can Use In A Pool To Help Them Float.
Name Something That Grows On Trees, But Isnt Fruit.
Name A Punishment That A Misbehaving Kid Might Get At School.
Name A Reason Why A Child Cant Wait To Grow Up
Name Something Besides Food And Drinks That You Can Buy At Starbucks.
Tell Me A Creature That Youd Hate To Hear In Your Room At Night.
For Which Occasion Would You Hate To Forget To Buy A Gift?
Name Something Rude People Do While Youre Trying To Talk To Them On The Phone.
When Sitting Close To A Date, What Clue Might They Give That They Like You?
Name A Store Or Type Of Store That Sells Expensive Merchandise.
Name Something Youd See On The Back Of A Car.
Name A Television Star Who Has Successfully Transitioned Into Feature Films.
Besides Utensils, Name Something Thats Already On The Restaurant Table When You Sit Down.
Name Something A Kid Passes Out To All Of His Classmates.
Name A Reason Why Its Harder To Get Out Of Bed On Some Days Than On Others.
Name A Way People Try To Stop A Bloody Nose.
Name A Good Place To Spend The Day When Its Raining Outside.
Name Something You Do At Least Twice In The Course Of A Long Car Ride With Family.
What Worldly Topic Would You Be Surprised To Learn That Britney Spears And Jessica Simpson Talk About When Theyre Alone
Name Something Teenagers Did In The 50?s.
Name A Sign That Your Girlfriend Might Be Turning Into A Cat.
Name Something Teenagers Do That Theyll Kick Themselves For Later In Life.
Name Something That Could Ruin A Romantic Dinner.
Name A Place Where Its Usually Not OK To Wear Jeans.
Name An Activity You Wouldnt Want To Do In The Rain
Name Something A Craft Lover Would Have A Lot Of.
Besides Coughing, Whats Something You Cant Stop Yourself From Doing?
Name A Word That Begins With Con.
Name A Breed Of Dog That Everyone Has Heard Of.
We Asked 100 Married People: Name The Thing That Your Spouse Most Often Complains About.
Name Something Youd Expect To See In A Boardroom Meeting.
Name Something That Might Be Ruined If It Had A Scratch On It.
Name Something Sister Borrow From Their Brothers.
Tell Me Something You Hate To Discover That Youre Missing A Piece From.
Name Another Word For Courage.
Name A Reason Why You Might Not Participate In Take-Your-Child-To-Work Day.
Name Something You Expect To See In A Martial Arts Movie.
Name Something That Would Keep You From Snuggling Up To Your Spouse In Bed.
While Looking For A New Home, What Would You Be Surprised To Find That A House Didnt Have?
Name A Famous Store In New York City.
Name A Job That A Clumsy Person Would Be Fired From Immediately.
Name The Vegetable That Tastes The Worst When it Comes From A Can.
Name A Food You Find Raisins In.
What Might A Financial Expert Tell You To Put Your Money Into?
How Many Credit Cards Does The Average Person Have? (Numeric Only)
Name An Animal That Might Pester You On A Camping Trip.
What Sport Would Become Disastrous If The Regular Ball Was Replaced With A Bowling Ball?
Name Someplace You Might Expect To Find A Snake.
Name Something That Would Be Annoying For Your Roommate To Forget To Do.
Name A Dessert Thats Made With Fruit.
Name A Tourist Attraction That Offers A Great View
Tell Me Something At A Beach That Begins With S.
Name Something You Might Chase If You Were A Dog.
Name Someone You Dont Want To Get A Phone Call From.
Name Something You Need To Bake A Cake.
Name Something That Can Stink Up Your Car
Tell Me Something That Is Plugged Into An Outlet In A Hotel Room.
Name Something The Indians Taught To The Pilgrims.
Name A Room In Your Home Thats Hard To Keep Clean.
Name Someplace Where They Sell Cotton Candy.
Name A Type Of Tree That Looks Pretty In The Fall.
Name Something That Is Folded.
Name Something Thats Often Sold At A Swap Meet. (Be More Specific Than Junk Or Stuff)
Other Than Work, Name Something You Often Find Yourself Talking To Co-Workers About.
Tell Me The Number Of People Who Can Ride Comfortably In A Van. (Numeric Only)
Name Something You Do To Try And Wake Up Your Leg After It Has Fallen Asleep.
Name A Winter Activity That Makes You Sweat.
Name A Food Item Typically Associated With Fall
Name Something Parents Photograph Their Baby Doing For The First Time.
Name Someone You Wouldnt Want To See You Nude.
Name A Computer Program Or Skill That You Wish You Were Better At.
What Do You See At The Olympics That You Might Also See At A Spelling Bee.
Name A Reason A Person Might Complain About A Cup Of Coffee Thats Served To Them.
To Feel Safer At Night, Name Something You Would Go To Sleep With.
Name Something That Might Happen If You Had Bad Luck On Your Honeymoon.
At An Awards Show, Name Something Celebs Might Be Doing When The Camera Pans On Them.
Name A Popular Christmas Candy.
Name A One Word Card Game
How Can You Tell Your Co-Worker Has Started Dating
Name Something Everyone Knows About The Dog Lassie.
Name Something Parents Say Is Too Short.
Name A Part of A Fish That Most People Dont Eat.
Name Something People Use To Help Them Find A Lost Item.
Name The Job You Wouldnt Want To Have If You Worked At The Circus
Name An Animal That Travels In Groups.
Name Something People Might Do With A Rental Car That They Wouldnt Do With Their Own Car.
Name Something Babies And Puppies Have In Common.
Name Someone, Real Or Fictional, Who Is Known For Having A White Beard.
Name Something Youd Be Surprised To Hear A Six Month Old Baby Has Already Learned How To Do.
When Youre Stressed Out, Name The Part Of Your Body Where You Feel It Most.
Name An Occupation In Which One Spends His Day Cutting.
Name Something Thats Hard To Hold Onto
Name Something A Husband Might Forget To Take To The Hospital When His Wife Is Having A Baby.
Name Something A Telemarketer Probably Hates About Their Job.
Name A Sport Where Athletes Often Wear Short Shorts
Tell Me Why Youd See An Adult Hiding
Name Something That Probably Drops In Sales In The Winter.
Name Something A Ten Year Old Boy Might Ask For
Name Something Women Do While Their Husbands Watch Monday Night Football
Name A Popular New Years Resolution
Name A Souvenier People Buy At Disneyland
Name The Most Popular Halloween Masks
Name A Part Of The Body That Often Itches.
Name A Candy That Comes In Different Colors
Name Something Snow White And Cinderella Have In Common.
Name A Complaint A Circus Clown Might Have About His Job.
Tell Me The Longest Youve Ever Gone Without Eating.
Name Something People Do To Keep Warm In The Winter.
Name A Form Of Technology That Some People Refuse to Use
Name Something You Dont Feel Comfortable Doing At A Neat Freaks House
Name a feature that an executives fancy office must have
Name A Household Item That You Would Take To A Special Facility To Throw Away
Tell Me Something You Only Do When Youre Sick.
Name Something Youd Like to Have In Your Backyard
Name Someone The Groom Might Not Want At His Bachelor Party
Name Something Your Mom Always Told You To Keep Clean
Other Than A Hand-Buzzer, Name Something Youd Be Sure To Buy At A Gag Shop
What Might Someone At The Symphony Do That Tells You Theyre Enjoying The Music
Name Something Every Movie Theatre, Fancy Or Not, Has
Name a city in the United States with a busy airport
Name Something Warm Served At An All-You-Can Eat Buffet.
Complete This Sentence. Id Never Date Someone Who had bad ___________ .
Name Something A Kid Would Do After School To Make An Extra Buck
Name Something Made with Ginger
Name Something A Person With Extra Long Arms Would Be Good At
Name The Part Of The Wedding That The Bride And Groom Might Do More Out Of Tradition Than Choice
Name Something You See Or Hear That Reminds You Of An Ex.
Name Something You shouldnt Squeeze too Tightly
Name something youd need to eat a lot of if you needed to gain a quick 10 pounds
What, Specifically, Keeps You From Getting A Degree?
Name Something Thats Sometimes Cheaper To Replace Than Fix
name a Profession Where You Might Be Fired If You Lost Your Voice
Name Something A Person Might Do While Playing Cards That Would Annoy Everyone Else At The Table
Name Something That You Probably Dont Wash As Often As You Should
Name A Talent You See Street Performers Doing
Real Or Fictional Name A Famous Family That Has A Lot Of Kids
Name Something You Might Find In A Kids Lunch Box (Food Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Name something you might see at the North Pole
Name Something People Do On The Day After Thanksgiving
Name something you can do to your nose
Name A Sport That Doesnt Require A Lot Of Equipment
Name Something People Do For Fun Even Though It Scares Them
Name A Specific Food Or Drink That Vendors Walk Around Selling At Sports Games
At What Place Might A Celebrity Get Special Treatment
Name Something Thats Different In Different Regions Of A Country
Name a famous Ghost
Name A Color Most People Wouldnt Want To Paint Their House
Tell me something youd hate to find on the end of your nose
Name An Alternative To Turkey On Thanksgiving
Name A Character From The Lord Of The rings
Name Something That People Put In Their Ears
Name a way you might be able to tell a woman is really a man in drag
Name Something People Consider A Snack Food
If You Were Stranded On An Island, Name Something You Might Do To Get The Attention Of A Search Plane
Name Something That Looks Attractive On A Woman, But Not A Man
If You Didnt Have To work, Name Something Youd Spend Your Life Doing
Name An Organization Thats Only For Females
Name A Gift Thats great To Give To Children If You Dont Live With Them.
Name A Pair Of Something You Cannot Wear
Name Something That A Very thrifty Person Would Re-Use after A Birthday Party
Name Something Youll Find On The Breakfast Menu No Matter What Kind Of Restaurant Youre At
Name Something People Look For In Their Dream Car
Name A U.S. State Whose Residents Say YAll
Tell Me A Place Where You Often Have To Pay For Parking
Name something a little boy might do that would make you suspect his father is Tarzan
Name Something That May Be Found Washed Up On The Beach
Name Something Your Dog Does Around The House, That Youd Kick A Roommate Out For Doing
Name Something A Hotel Guest Calls The Front Desk To Ask About
Name An Animal A Person With Chubby Cheeks Might Resemble
Name a household item that children turn into a toy
Name Something You Need In Order To Be Popular In High School
Name A Product That Might Be Disposable
Name A Football Bowl Game
Name Something Youd See More Of At A Wrestling Match Than A Tennis Match
Name Something That Both A Dental Office And A Spa Might Have
Name something associated With The Game Show Hollywood Squares
Name a talent you see street performers doing
Name something a rockstars dressing room is probably full of
At A party where You Dont Know Anyone, How Might You Pass The Time?
Name a tv show with the word love in its title
Instead Of Getting A Job, Name Something A Person Might Do After College
Name An Activity People Commonly Take Up After Retirement.
Name a piece of person info that youd never list on Facebook
Name A Piece Of Info That May Be Revealed On Someones Coffee Mug
Name A Food That Some People Prefer To Eat Burnt
Name An Instrument In An Orchestra
Name Something You Fold, Be Specific
Tell Me The Title Of A Movie That Used Clay-Motion Or Puppets
Name Something Your Neighbor Might Ask To Borrow
Name something you fold, be specific
If Your Cat Went On Strike,Name Something He Might Demand Before Returning To Work As Your Pet
Name An Occupation Where You Might Work All Night
Name A Singer OF Classic Holiday Standards
Name Something A Teenage Girls Parents Would Hope Thet Her Boyfriend Didnt Have
Name Something Youd Find In A Scientists Lab
Name Someone Big Bird Might Invite To His Birthday Party
When A Person Wants To Sneak A Cigarette, Where Do They Usually Hide
Name A Reason A Person Might Pretend To Be Older
Name Something A Person Might Reach For At The Dinner Table
Name A Cartoon Character Thats Been Around Forever
Name Something Or Someone Youd See At A nightclub
If Students Ran Schools,Name Some Things They Would Probably Get Rid Of
Name Something You Might Want To Buy If Youre Hosting A Halloween Party
Name A Kevin Bacon Film
Name A Good Gift For A High School Graduate
Name A Public Place Where Youd Expect Married Couples To Show Affection
Name A Pair Of Something That You Can Not Wear
Name Something Many people Buy With Credit Card Instead Of Cash
Name Something A Kid Might Use To Slide Down The Stairs
Name Something That Comes In A Can
Name Something That Tastes Better With Salt On It
Name A Reason You May Not Be Able To Get Home For The Holidays
Name Something Romantic You Hope To Still Do With Your Partner When Youre 80
Name Something Thats Fake On WWF Wrestling
Name An Animal Mentioned In The Song 12 Days Of Christmas
Name Something That People Keep On Their Kitchen Table Most Of The Time
If You Got A New Puppy, Name Something Youd Teach It
Name Something That You Would wear To A Wedding In The Dessert
Name A Drink That Often Comes With A Spoon
In The Store, Name A Product That You Might Choose Because Its Soft
Besides Swimming, Name Something People Do To Stay Cool In The Summer
Name Something About A Teddy Bear Thats Different From A Real Bear
Name Something Associated With John Travolta
Name A Food Thats Baked In The Oven, But Cant Be Cooked In The Microwave
Name Something Your House Is Full Of After Christmas
Name A Piece Of Equipment Many Bikers Dont Use, But Ought To.
Name A Reason A College Student Would Stay With Their Parents For The Weekend Instead Of Their Own Dorm Room.
Name Something Most Parents have Pictures Of Their Child Doing
Name Something That Is Rude To Do When Someone Is Taking TO You
Name A Child Actor Who Is Still Acting Or Working In Hollywood As An Adult
Instead Of Magazines, Name Something You wish Your Dentists Waiting Room Had?
Name A Place That Single People Travel To For Its Party Atmosphere
Name A Food Or Beverage You Wouldnt Consume After Itd Been Sitting Out In Hot Weather
We Asked 100 Parents: Name Something Youd Tell Your Children To Do First Before Getting Married
Name A Culture Or Religion That Celebrates A Different New Year Then The West
Instead Of Get A Job, Name Something A Person Might Do After College
Name Something A resourceful Person Might Use To Hang A Picture If They Didnt Have A Nail
Which Olympic Sport Would Be Most Fun To watch Live
Which Color Of Car Do You Think Gets Pulled Over Most Often
Name A Public Place You Immediately Want To Wash Your Hands Immediately After Leaving
Name A Movie Or TV Show about Gangsters
What Might Your Cell Phone Provider Charge Extra For
Name Something Grocery Stores Keep In A Glass Case
Name A Club A High School Student Might Belong To
Name Something That Usually Stops After A Couple Gets Married
What Is The Best Part Of A 4th Of July Parade
What Is The Maximum Number Of Times Its Okay For Your Partner To Call You At Work
Name Something Womens Magazines Give Advice On
Name Something You Would Do In A Public Restroom That You Would Never Do In Your Own Bathroom
Name Something A Person Might Do In Order To Stay Attractive
Name An Employee Youd Find At A Fancy Hotel, But Not At A Budget Motel
Tell Someone Who Parents Tell Their Kids To Have respect For. (More specific Then Elders)
Name A Specific Item In Your House Thats Too Big To Throw Away In The Trash Can
Name Something You Do After returning Home From A Long Vacation
What Might Some People Do While Playing Cards That Would Annoy Everyone Else At The Table
Name A Place You Would Go With Your Wife Just To Make Her Stop Nagging
Its Said There Is A Seven Year Itch, After How Many Years Do You Think The Itch really Comes
Name Something Pros Do On A Golf Course, That Youd Look Silly Doing For Mini Golf
On Average, How Many Hours Does A Couple Sleep On Their Wedding Night
Name Something People Proudly Share On Facebook
Name Something You Wouldnt Want Your date To Talk Too Much About
name Something You Carry with You Just In Case, But Hate to Get Stuck Carrying
Name Something Men Probably Lie About Most
Youve Had A Bad Day, Name Something Youre Told To Do To Make You Feel Better
Name A Complaint A Customer Might Have About A Bar Theyre At
Name Something Babies Do That You Would Be Embarrassed To Have Someone See You Do As An Adult
Name A type Of Dance People Do In A Dance Competition
Name Something A Fan Might Collect From Their favorite Singer
Other Than Food, Why Do You Like Going To A Chinese Restaurant
Name a Meal Youd Never Serve At a Fancy Party
At which Type Of Place Would You Be Surprised To See A Neon Sign Hanging In The Window
What Do Tourists Ride In Or On, That Makes Them Stand Out?
Name something Many People Would Love To Live Next To
Name something Thats forbidden In Most Swimming Pools
Name Something Around The House You Might Keep Spare Batteries For
What Is The First Thing You Would Do If You Won A Million Dollars
Name An Item Jugglers Often Juggle
Other Than A Ball, Name Something That A Baseball Player Gets Asked To Sign
Name A Man Women Love Just For His Accent
Name A Place Where A Mom Might Go When She Says,  I Need Peace And Quiet.
name A Place Youd Visit More Often If It wasnt So Crowded There
Besides The Blade, Name Something Youd Find On A Swiss Army Knife
Name Something Teens May Be Afraid Of When Moving Away To College
Name A Print People Wear On Clothing, But You Would Hate As Wallpaper
Name An Occupation In Which Someone With A Baby Face Might Have A Hard Time Providing Their Authority
What Might An Adult Wear That Has His Name On It?
Name A Popular Pick Up Line
By What Method Might A Woman Make The Announcement That Shes Pregnant
Name Something On Your Body That You Wiggle
Name Something A Magician Might Make Disappear
Name Something A Slob Might Never Clean
What Might somebody Do That Would Annoy Fellow Theater-Goers At A Play?
Name A Specif Food That Someone With High Cholesterol Might give Up
name A Way You Might Be Able to Tell Your Baby Is really An Alien
Name A Reason Your Bathroom Is Better Than An Outhouse
Name A Job Where Employees Must get Tired Arms
Name A Term Youd Expect A Poker Player To Know
Name Something You Do In A Booth
name something You Often Feel Sleepy while Doing
Name An Expression That Ends With The word House
aside From Animals, Name Something People Hunt For.
name Something A Celebrity Hopes Wont Happen While On Stage To Accept An Award
Name Something A Child Might Never Do If They werent Forced To
Name Something That its Hard To Do While Listening To Music
Name Something That often Has Magical Powers In fairy Tales
Name A Sport In Which Participants Use A Specific Kind Of Headwear
What Do People Do That Could Get Them Kicked Out Of A Museum
Name A Pastime Youd Know Someone Has, Just By Looking At Their Shoes
If A group Of Senior Citizens Formed A Punk Rock Band, What Might Their Songs Bark About
Name A Job Where It Would Be Okay To Yell At Work
Name Something That Becomes More Active After Dark
We Asked 100 Married people: After How Many Did You Know Your Partner was The one?
Name A Part Of A Beauticians Body That Probably Gets Tired By The End Of The Day
Name An Excuse People Give For Not Seeing Their Dentist
Name An Animal You Can Teach Tricks
Name A Movie Or TV Show That Has The word Diary/Diaries In The Title
Name Somewhere You Would Look If You Wanted To Find A Spider
Name Something You Try To Do before It Starts To Rain
Name Something Men In Fairy Tales Fight Against, That Real Men Dont
Name Something You Should Never Wear As The Guest At Someones Wedding
Name A Specific Place Where You Often Find The Parking Lot Full
What Might A Rock Star Do At A Concert Hall That prevents Him Form Getting Hired Again
Other than Acting, Name A Profession That Celebrity Actors Might Take Up
Name Something A Hobo Does To Pass His Time While Ridin The Rails
Name Something A Girl Wants As A Gift That Most Guys Would Never Want.
Name Something That Young Children Memorize
Name A Food That Comes In A Sugar-Free Variety
Name A State Where Leaves Change Color In Fall
Name An Instance When You Fake A Smile
Name A Sign Youre At A Really Cheap Birthday party
Name Something You Can Do At A Bowling Ally, But Its Not The Reason Most People Go
Name Something In the House That YounMight Not Use When People Are trying To Sleep
name A fear parents Have For Their Child, When She Moves Out Of The House
Name Something Your Likely To Find At A Fall Harvest Fair
Name A Spicy Food Some People Love To Eat
Tell Me Something Your Spouse Does That Makes You Suspect Theyre Angry At You
Name A Food That Goes Bad In Your Fridge
How Can You Identify The Bad Guy In A Movie, Even Before He Does Anything Wrong
Name Something That You Can Tell Is Fake In A Cheesy Movie
Name Something You Do In Front Of A Mirror You Wouldnt Want Anyone To See
Name A Place A Housekeeper Usually Forgets To Clean
Name An Item Stores Probably Have A Hard Time Selling After Christmas
Name Something Millionaires Might Shop For Just For Fun
Name A Christmas Song That Most People Forget Some Of The Words To
What Kind Of Gift Would You Get Somebody That Spends A Lot Of Time At The Beach
If You Were Creating The Perfect Small Town, Name A Type Of Business Youd Probably Have At Least One Of
Name Something That Gets Described As Cheesy
Which Mans Name Are You Likely To Hear In A Mafia Movie
Besides Go On Rides, Name Something People Do At disneyland
Name Something You Should Always Have Handy In Your Car In Case Of An Emergency
No Matter What Your Age, Name Something That Can Make You Feel Like A Kid Again
Name Something Your Spouse Might Get Mad At You for Doing Too Much
Which Former President Would Look Funny Wearing A Dress?
Name A Place Where You See More Cops Than In A Jail
Name something your shampoo promises to do.
Name Something A Child Might Carry Along Everywhere
Name Something A Pilot Tells You On A Cross Crountry Trip That You Bet She Doesnt Tell Her Kids On The Drive To School
Name A Boring Topic That A Person Should Not Talk About On A Date
Tell Me Something About A Boys Appearance That Might Make his Dates Disapprove Of Him
Name an ingredient some people would say makes all food taste better.
What Do Some Women Say About Men As A Reason For Why They Cant Get Dates
Name Something You Are Embarrassed To Do In Front Of People At The Gym
Name A Class That Most Students Take In College But Not High School
Name Something You Might Inflate
Name Something With A Face
Name an act of high school rebellion that you cant imagine a kindergartener doing.
A What Place Would You Not want To Be Seated Next To Someone With An Annoying Laugh
Name A Place Where You Might Find A Prediction About The Future
Whats The Worst Thing To Leave In Your Pants Pocket When They Go Through The Wash
What Time Is The earliest Youre Willing To Get Up On A Saturday?
If you moved to Los Angeles, what would be the first thing youd have to get used to.
Name Something Specific A Student Might Do In Oder To Become The Teachers Pet
Besides A Loaf Of Bread, Name Something You Might Buy In The Bread Section Of The Supermarket
Name A Place Where Most Americans Go At Least Once For Vacation
Tell Me Something You Try To Avoid Hitting While Sledding Down A Hill
Name Something That No Wedding Ceremony Should Be Without.
Name Something You Find Out About A Hotel Ahead Of Time, When Decided Whether To Stay There.
Name something you would hate to find under your bed.
Name Something Politicians Always Say Theyll Improve.
Tell Me A Specific Part Of Your Body That You Never Worry About Getting Fat.
Name Something Youd Hate To Find Had Happened To Your Car While It Was Parked.
Name A Word That You Might See Before Or After The Word Wax.
Name Something You Would Pack For Your Stay At A Hotel Made Of Ice
Name An Occupation Where You Have To Wake Up Early In The Morning.
Name A Movie Based On A TV Show Or Skit.
Name Something That No Wedding Ceremony Should Be Without
Besides Jelly, What Else Goes Well With Peanut Butter
Name Something You Might Wear To A Restaurant That Only Served Cereal.
Name Something Youd Hate To Find Has Happened To Your Car While It was parked.
Name Something A Taxi Driver Would Have To Stop Doing In Order To Be A Respectable Hearse Driver.
Name A Reason A Partys Host Might Ask A Guest To Leave.
What Should Every Baseball Player Make Sure He Has Before The Game Starts?
What Profession Would You Want Your Mate To Have Just Because Itd Be Useful Around The House
Name A Hobby That Some People Can Make A Job Out Of.
Name A word YOu Might see Before Or After The Word Wax
Name Something A Man Does That Gets Him In The Doghouse With His wife.
Name A movie Based On A TV Show Or Skit
Tell Me An article Of Clothing Worm By Both Men And Women
What Might A Kid Take Along If Hes Planning To Run Away Fro Home?
Name Something That Prevents You From Seeing For Miles.
What Might A Date Do On Your Answering Machine That Would Keep You From Calling Them Back?
Name An Occupation That Adult Men Still Dream About Having
Name A Sandwich You Can Find In Most delis.
What Do Some People Refuse To Go Swimming Without?
Tell Me Something You Put In An Emergency Road Kit.
Name Something You See In A Room That Tells You A Teenage Girl Lives There.
Name Something You Think America Or Americans Waste Money On.
Besides Music, Name Something You Might Hear On A Morning Radio Show.
Name Something You Try To Avoid Doing When Posing For A Photo.
Name A Food Someone Might Use More Than One Hand To Eat.
Name A Famous Dog?
During An Argument, What Might A Teen Do That Makes Their Parents Really Angry?
Besides Throwing Them Away, Name Something You Can Do With Old Newspapers.
What Might A Kid Take Along If Hes Planning To Run Away From Home?
Name An Event A Child Closes Their Eyes For
After A Cop Pulls You Over, What Might You Try To Do To Avoid Getting A Ticket
Name Something Some People Wear While Mowing The Lawn, But You Wouldnt
Name Something That Might Physically Happen To Your Body When Scared
Name A Christmas Show That Is On TV Every Year.
Name A Skill That A Persons Resume Might Claim Theyre Better At Than They Really Are.
Name An Occupation That Would Never drive A Small Car.
Which Spooky Halloween Character Would You Hate To Run Into In A Dark Alley?
For Which Items Do People Wait In Long Lines To Purchase At The Holidays?
Name A Cartoon Character Who Would Never Be Chosen To Narrate A Documentary.
Name A Food That A Parent Might Hide Their Childs Pill In, To Get Them To Swallow It.
Name A Hair Color That Isnt Natural.
Name Something With An Expiration Date Goes Bad Before Use
Name A Sport In Which Competitors Wear Funny Looking Shoes
Aside From Other Movie Stars, Name A Common Profession For Movie Star Spouses.
What Kinds Of Tasks Do We Now Handle Online That We Didnt Use To 10 Years Ago?
Name A Subject That Often Comes Up In Family Feud Question
Name Something Youd Probably See At A Construction Site
Name A Public Place Where Youre Likely To Catch A Cold Or Flu Bug
Tell Me A Sign That Its Time To Enroll Your Dog In Obedience School
Name A Celebrity Chef You Would Want Making You Dinner Every Night
Name A Type Of Alcohol You Expect Any Bar To Have
What Was Your Worst Nightmare About?
Name Something You Dont Wash As Often As Should
TV Show With Womans Name In Title
Name A Tv Show Past Or Present That Has A WomanS Name In The Title
If You Dyed Your Hair, What Color Would You Hate To Turn Out
Name Someone Specific Youd Be Nervous About Lying To
What Can You Find Out About Person By Reading Their Bumper Stickers?
Name An Ice Cream Topping That Every Ice Cream Shop Should Have
Product Advertised In Magazines
Finish This Sentence: Since I Got Married, I Have More_____.
Name Something That Doesnt Have A Characteristic Of President
Tell Me A Characteristic Of A Man Whos Described As Distinguished.
Name Something That People Like To Show Off
Name Something You Dont Buy At Grocery Store With A Long Walk Home
Name Something You See A Candidate Doing In TV Campaign Commercials
Name Something Your Toddler May Be Doing If She Is Very Quiet
Name Something Your Mother Said Would Cure Ailments
If Someone Didnt Trust Banks Where Would They Hide Cash
Name Something That Goes Round And Round
Name An Event Thats Often Held As A Fundraiser
Name A Function You Have On Your Telephone, That Your Child Doesnt Have On Their Tin Can Phone.
Name Something That Wedding Ceremony Should Be Without
Which Mans Name Are You Likely To Hear In Mafia Movie?
Name A Kind Of Doctor.
Name Something That Gets Saved
Name Your Favorite Filling In A Valentines Day Chocolate.
Name Something On A Car That Lets You Know The Owner Takes A Lot Of Pride In Their Ride.
Name A Specific Expense That Youd Save On If You Didnt Have Any Kids
What Do You See In Someones Mouth Laughing Dont Always See
What Do You Find Out About A Hotel Ahead Of Time, When Deciding Whether To Stay There?
Name Something You Do In The Morning, Before Anyone Else Is Awake
Other Than A Car, Where To Find A Horn
Name Something You Cut Tag Off Before Using
Which Terms For Weather Phenomena Could A Roller Coaster Be Named After?
Name Something Co-Workers Talk About Around The Water Cooler
Name A Cartoon Character Who Has Trouble Pronouncing Words
Name A Magazine You See At Supermarket Checkout Stands
Name Something In The Car 16 Year Old Should Know
Name Something People Spend THeir Tax Returns On.
Name Something That Has A Clock On It
Name Something Associated With A Teenage Girls Sleepover
What Might You Find Out About Job Not Accepting It
Which Orchestra Instrument Would Be Most Effective If You Wanted To Wake Someone Up?
Name Something That Might Be Lying On A Teenagers Floor
What Might You Find Out About A Job That Would Keep You From Accepting It?
Name A Public Place Where Bathrooms Are Disgusting
Name Something Dogs Get More Excited About Than People.
Name A Mode Of Transportation That Is Hard Caring For Children
Name Something You Find In A Little Boys Pocket.
Name Something Many Parents Want Children Learn Young Age
Name A Place You May Keep Your Keys While Swimming
Name A Reason a Person Might Get Rid Of A Pet.
Name Something Guests Do At A Wedding
Name Something In Your House You Have Installed
Name A Good Job For Someone Who Asks A Lot Of Questions.
Name The Worst Thing To Lose While On Vacation
Name A Place Where Youd Find Colorful Neon Lights
Name Something That A Child Often Loses
Name Something A Leprechaun Would Have Made For Himself Out Of Gold
Name Something Specific A Teen Might Do That Shows Theyre Rebelling
Name A Job That Youd Need A License To Do
What Might You FInd In A Briefcase That Would Make You Think It Belonged To A Spy?
Which Cartoon Character Would Make A Good Athlete If Real
If Adults Had Fight Like Toddlers Do, What Might Your Spouse Do The Next Time You Disagreed?
Name Something YouD Hate To See The Valet Driver Doing With Your Car
Name Something A Younger Brother Wants To Do
What Might A Date Do In The First 5 Minutes That Tells You They Have Bad Manners?
Name Something A Beauty Queen and A Figure Skater Have In Common
What Might Someone Do While Sleeping That Tells You Theyre Having A Nightmare?
Name Something People Do While Watching Fireworks
Name Something That Makes You Feel Better When Youre Having A Bad day.
Name A Slang Expression The Mafia Uses For The Word Kill
Name An Activity Where You Wear Gloves
Name An Article Of Clothing Never Wear Fancy Restaurant
Name A Bad Job For Someone Whos Accident Prone
Name Something California Has More Of Than Any Other State
Name Something You Wear That Is Invisible
Name Something That You Hate To Get In Your Eyes
Name Something Flashy Movie Spies Have
Name Something More Than Difficult To Do When Driving A Car With Stick Shift
If You Could Describe Yourself As A Shape, Name The Shape You Would Be?
Name A Public Place Where Least Romantic To Propose
What Might You Put In The Yard If You Had Nosey Neighbors?
Other Than Coins, Name Something People Collect
Name Something Embarrassing That Can Happen If You Laugh Too Hard.
Name A Kitchen Item That A Man Generally Does Not Own Until He Is Married
What Can Almost Everyone Cook
Where Do You Go,Specifically,To Find Peace And Quiet?
Name An Article Of Clothing Associated With A Foreign Country.
Name An Article Of Clothing That You Wouldnt Wear To Bed
Name Something That Tastes Better Plain Than Fruit-Flavored
Name A Piece Of Information Youd Be Surprised To Find On Someones Business Card.
Name Something Specific That Piles Up Before You Can Get To It.
A Game You See People Playing In The Park
Tell Me Something You Close Your Mouth To Try To Keep From Doing
Name A Specific Complaint Many People Have About Bosses
Name Something Youd Be Shocked To See A Celebrity Wear On The Red Carpet.
Name Something Not To Run Away From Because It Makes Things Worse
Other Than Talking, Name Something Shouldnt Do While Eating
Animal People Think Others Are Crazy For Eating
Name Something About Which Many People Have Phobias.
Name A Type Of Party
Name Something Your Child Knows About You That You Hope Shes Not Telling Strangers
Name A Hobby Or Activity In Which Youd Love To Get Lessons From A Pro.
Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Answer Door
Name Something Octopus Would Be Good At
Name An Article Of Clothing That Many Men Think Women Look Attractive In.
Name Something You Do Each Day, But You Never See Soap Opera Characters Doing.
Name Something A Person Might Accidentally Leave Behind In A Taxicab.
Name Something Men Do Today, But Probably Didnt Do 50 Years Ago.
Name Something Youd Be Surprised To Hear That A Celebrity Did For Herself
What Does A Child Do More Of Once They Become A Teenager?
Name Something Youd Find In A School Lost-And-Found Box.
Name A Reason Why A Woman Wouldnt Change Her Last Name After Marrying.
Name An Animal A Lion Likes To Eat
If You Requested Hamburger Garbled, What You Get
Name A 2-Word Phrase That Includes The Word Secret
Name Something A Teacher Can Do To Ruin A Students Day
Name Something Found At The Bottom Of The Ocean
Tell Me Something That Is Impossible To Do With Freshly Painted Nails.
Name Something Youd Hate To Have Happen While Driving A New Car Home
Name A Cartoon Character Who Never Seems To Get Any Older
Name Something Begins With Great
Name Soemthing You Can Never Find When You Need It
Name A Place Where Employees Might Spend A Whole Day Mowing The Lawn
Where Might You Be If Youre Sitting In A Cramped Spot For A Long Time?
Name A Place Where You Dont Want Front Row Seats
What Is Something On Your Body That Shows YouVe Been Hurt
Name A Public Place That You Can Almost Never Park Right In Front Of.
Name A Type Of Business That Has Regular Customers
Name Something Youd Never Forget To Do On Christmas Day
Name An Occupation You Associate With Having A Positive Attitude
Occupation With Positive Attitude
What Hobby Or Activity Could Cause A Man To Have Missing Teeth?
Name Something Youd Expect To Find On A Pirates Ship
Name A Sign The Man YouRe Dating Is A Caveman
Which Sports Are You Most Likely To Break An Arm Playing?
Name A Game That Has A Specific Type Of Table
Name Something Specific In A Hotel Handy To Have Camping
Name A Section YouD See At A Book Store
Name Something Specific A Person Might Do During An Argument That Makes Their Partner Really Angry
Name Something Women Put In Their Hair
Name Something Politicians Always Say Theyll Improve
Name A Workplace You Would Get Used To Stress
Place You End Up Spending More Money Than Planned
Name A Specific Type Of Business That Usually Has An ATM Inside
Name A Place That Gets Crowded At The End Of A Work Day
What Do Parents Most Like To Receive From Their Children?
Name Something Kids Do Over Their Summer Vacation
Name Something A Drive-Thru Worker Might Forget To Give You That Would Be Annoying.
Name Something That Both Men And Women Use To Get Ready For A Date
Name Something That Both Men And Women Use Get Ready For A Date
Fairy Tale Character In Shrek
Name A Professional Football Team Thats Named For An Animal.
Name A Color Thats Usually Included In Packs Of Fruit-Flavored Candy
Name A Kitchen Item That Might Be Used To Make Lava On A Volcano Model
Which Class Do Students Take In College Thinking It Would Be An Easy A?
Name An Event That Would Cause News To Interrupt TV Show
Profession Where Talk To Strangers All Day
In Movies, Name An Occupation Thats Almost Always Played By Men
How Tell Person Next To You Is Nervous Flyer
Name One Kitchen Gadget Even A Single Guy Owns
Name Something Youd Be Disappointed To Find Your Computer Came Without
Besides Curtains, Name Something College Student Cover Window
Tell Me Who Was At The Door The Last Time You Pretended Not To Be Home.
Which Foods Are You Most Likely To Grab For A Late Night Snack?
Name Something Kids Love To Eat That Adults Like Too.
Name Something A Batchelor Pad Needs
Name Something That Even A Very Small Town Usually Has One Of
Tell Me A Place You Would Dread Being When Your Laxative Kicks In
Tell Me An Occupation That A Blabbermouth Would Fail At
Name Something You Might See At A Crime Scene
Name A Famous Dog
Name Something You Can Use To Get Your Car Out Of The Snow.
Name An Activity Kids Do In The Car That They Can Also Do At Home.
Someone You Hire For A Wedding
Name Something About A Celebritys Life Plastered Magazines
Name Something You Do Before You Go On Vacation
Fruit Often Served In A Bowl
Name Something YouD Expect To See A Lot Of In Hawaii
Name A Job Which Might Require Someone To Work On Christmas.
Name A Job Which Might Require Someone To Work On Xmas
Name Something You Take Back Home From Your Hotel Room
Tell Me Something You Might Find In A Nurses Pocket.
What Would A Taxi Driver Have To Stop Doing To Drive A Hearse
Name Something Nice Hotel/Motel Might Have In Lobby
Which Items Are Most Commonly Found In A Restaurants Lost-And-Found Box?
Name Something In Your House That Youd Hate To Find Wasnt Working
When You Dont Want To Get Out Of Bed In The Morning, Name Something That Gets You Up Anyway
Name Something You Would Hate To Find Under Your Bed
Name Something That A Person Might Ask To Have Signed
Name A Hygiene Product That You Hope Your Office Mate Uses Every Day.
If You Ordered A Pizza With The Works, Name A Topping That Youd Expect.
Name A Fruit That You Rarely See Made Into Juice
Name Something A Woman Might Wish Her Husband Had More Of
Name A Food Thats On Menu Of Every Restaurant
Tell Me Soap Opera That Describes Your Love Life
Name A Food That People Get Fed In A Romantic Situation.
What Places Are Most Likely To Get Tagged With Graffiti?
Name Something That A Child From A Large Family Never Has To Their Self
Name Something That Siblings Accuse You Hogging
Name Something A Wrestler Would Probably Never Wear During A Match?
Name Something A Child Might Sleep With
Where Do People Usually Seek Parenting Advice?
Name A Good Place To Study
Name A Musical Instrument Thats Difficult To Play
Best Way To Greet Friend Without Speaking
Name Another Word For A Persons Brain
What Would You Be Disappointed In A Hotel In Hawaii
Name Something Mom Says That Kids Pretend Not To Hear
Name An Excuse Someone Might Give To Get Ahead Of You In The Check Out Line
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Stay Up All Night
Name Something That Fast Food Rarely Comes Without
Name Something You Would Hate To Go On A Road Trip Without.
Besides Dishes And Utensils, What Else Do You Need To Host A Fancy Dinner Party?
Name Something That Goes Well With A Juicy Steak
Name A Typical Holiday Casserole.
Name A Place Where Youd Hate To Get A Case Of The Giggles
While Vacationing, What Might A Cheapskate Buy As Souvenirs For Her Friends?
Name Something You See A Lot Of When You Look Out The Window On A Long Car Ride.
Other Than A Bull, Name A Big Clumsy Animal
If You Were An Earth Tour Guide, Which Landmarks Would You Show To An Alien?
Name A Stereotype About Teenagers Often Untrue
name A Slender Animal that Wouldnt Make A Very Good Piggy Bank.
When Traveling In A Foreign Country, Name Something Youd Hate To Forget The Word For.
Tell Me A Person You Wouldnt Want See Batchelorette Party
Name Something No Christmas Party Should Be Without.
Job You Shouldnt Apply For If You Dont Like Waking Up Early
Name A Job You Should Never Apply If You Dont Like Wake Early
Name A Job Where You Wouldnt Take Your Work Home
Name A Famous Saint
Name A Male Performer Past Or Present Known For Wearing Outrageous Clothing
Tell Me A City In Which Youd Never Be Bored
Name A Famous Johnson
Most Important Thing Couple Has To Pick Out For Wedding
Name Something You Would Change If You Could In Your Life
If Serious About Camping, Name Something You Leave At Home
Name Something That An Employer Not Allowed To Ask Interview
Name A Job Aquaman Could Do If He CouldnT Be A Superhero Anymore
Name Something A Baby Cant Do On Own At Birthday Party
Name Something That A Person From A Warm Climate Wouldnt Know How To Do In The Snow.
Name A Food On Kids Menu
Name Something Of Yours That Youd Be Angry To Find A Partner Snooped Into
Name A Winter Sport That You Think Never Add To Olympics
Name Something People Do To Let You Know Theyre Bored
Name Something YouD Hope To See One Of On A Trip To Hawaii
Name A Famous Beach
Food That Made You Nervous
Name An Extra You Might Pay More For At The Gym
Name Something Related To Finances That Its Hard To Explain To A Kid.
Name Something A Little Kid Might Tell You About Santa Claus.
Name Something A Trucker Does More Than You Do
Name Something People Do To Help Them Fall Asleep At Night.
Name Something You Do To Calm Yourself After Becoming Very Angry.
If You Were Forming A Relay Race Team, Which Animals Would You Choose For Teammates?
Why Might A Cop Who Pulls Someone Over Not Give A Ticket
Name A Type Of Animal That Can Be Found In The Cereal Box
Which Office Supply Is Most Likely Cause An Injury
Name A Vegetable You Would Never Make Juice Out Of
Name Something People Associate With The TV Show 60 Minutes
Someone Who Works With Assistant
Garment In Dressing Room For Pro Wrestling Event
Name Something Most Parents Cant Wait Until Their Child Starts Doing On His Own
Name Something You Remember About The Tv Show M*A*S*H
What Do Parents Do As Part Of Their Childrens bedtime Routine?
Name An Animal That A Person Can Be Referred To As
Name Something You Might See At A High School Homecoming.
Name A Word Or Phrase That Has The Word Key In It.
Why Might You Have To Stop The Car During A Long Ride?
Name A Float You Might See At Macys Thanksgiving Parade
Name An Item A Company Might Put Their Logo On And Give Out For Free.
Name A Celebrity Whose Records In Country Music Museum
Name A TV Show Youd Never Want Your Name Mentioned On.
Occupation You Are Either Loved Or Hated
Name Something In America Slowly Vanishing
Name An Activity Thats More Fun To Do When Its Raining Outside
Name A Gift You Might Buy If Youre A Secret Santa
Name Something People Lose On Roller Coaster
Name Something A Beautiful Woman Might Flirt With Someone In Order To Get
What Might Some Women Love More Than Their Spouse?
Name Something That An Adventurous Person Might Try While At The Beach
Name Something People Might Put On Cottage Cheese
Name Something You Bring With You To A Sporting Event.
Name A Type Of Music Easy To Dance To
Where Do People Often Go For Their Honeymoons?
Tell Me A Womans Name That Starts With The Letter J
If You Lived In Fairy Tale Land, Someone At Grocery
Which Website Would You Not Go A Day Without Visiting
Name A Complaint An Astronaut Might Have About Living On The Space Station
Country That Does Well In World Cup
Name A Country American Kids Visit In Hope Lucky In College
Name An Accent That Many Americans Consider Sexy
Name Something That College Students Get Stolen From Them On Campus.
If Your Husband Could Get One Quality From James Bond, What Would You Want It To Be?
Name Something Two People On A Date Might Share
Besides Alcohol, Drugs, Or Tobacco, Name Something That People Get Addicted To.
What Do You Find Out About A Person Right Away On An Online Dating Site, But Much Later If You Meet In Real Life?
Name A Place Where Wish People Wouldnt Answer Their Cell Phones
Name A Place Where A Woman Would Hate For Her Husband To be When She Went Into Labor
Which Animals Communication Sounds A Lot Like Crying?
Name A Way You Might Know Someone Is In The Secret Service
Name People Used To Call Women In Old Days
Name A Chore People Had To Do During Colonial Times That We Dont Do Any More
Name Something That Can Be Temporary Or Permanent
Name An Activity People Do Hawaiin Vacation
Name A Vehicle People Drive Makes Them Feel Own The Road
Name Something You Wouldnt Miss About Daily Life If You Were Stranded On A Desert Island.
We Asked 100 Women: When You Should Be Focusing On Romance, Name Something Your Mind Is Often Distracted By Instead?
Keepsake People Put In Babys Scrapbook
Name A Profession Where Youd Have To Smile A Lot.
Name Something That Often Gets Tied Up
Name An Activity For Which People Wear Boots
Name A Christmas Show That Is On Tv Every Year
Name Something That A Man Had Better Not Take Along On His Honeymoon
If You Commuted To Work By Jet Pack, Name Something Dangerous That Could Happen. Be Specific.
Name Something A Teenage Daughter Parent Hope Fromn Boyfriend
Name Something A Woman Might Want To Cover Up With Makeup
Name A House Pet You Wouldnt Let Sleep End Bed
Name Something That Melts
Name An Extra Something You Add To Your Mac And Cheese To Make It More Satisfying
Name A Food Served In An Elementary School Cafeteria
Name Something You May Have Once Worn With A Work Uniform, But Wouldnt Wear For A Night On The Town
Name Something You Might See At A Country Western Bar
Name Something A Person Has A Hard Time Remembering When They Get Old
Name Something That A Person Doesnt Remember As They Get Old
Name A Place Where You May Have To Stand For A Long Time
Color Of Car You Would Never Buy
What Would You Hate To Learn You Did After Drinking At Company Party?
Name An Article Of Clothing You Cant Wash In The Wash Machine
Name Something You Wouldnt Want Your Children To Do As You Do?
Name Something Almost Everyday Bride Wants At Her Wedding
Name Something You Wear That Never Comes With Pockets
Name A Reason Why You Might Stay In A Hotel In Your Own City.
Name Something That Might Make Your Road Trip Stressful
Complaint Circus Clown Might Have About Job
Name Something A Person Sitting Next To You At A Bar Might Do To Annoy You.
Tell Me Something A Grandma Passes On To Her Grandchildren
Name Something An Underage Teen Needs Their Parents Permission To Do
Which Animal Has The Best Chance Of Winning At The Hurdles?
What,Specifically Might Someone Do When They Walk Into Their Surprise Party.
Where Were You The Last Time You Felt Youd Been Ripped Off?
Name Something On TV That Causes People To Yell At Their Screens
Name Something The Three Stooges Do While Fighting That Youd Be Surprised To See A Pro Boxer Do
Name A Personality Trait You Hope People Use When Talking About You
Name A U.S. City Known For Having Great Weather
Name Something Sold Door-To-Door
Which Christmas Movie Is Played Most Often Over The Holidays?
Name A Food That Usually Comes With A Particular Sauce
Name A Breakfast Food That Could Just As Easily Be A Dessert
Name The Thing You Most Fear Doing During An Important Job Interview
Name Something You Might Find On A Persons Arm
Name A Skill That A Persons Resume Might Claim Than Are
Name A School Subject That People Often Become Bad At In Adulthood.
You Use Cheese To Catch A Mouse, But What Do You Use To Catch A Spouse?
Department At A Home Improvement Store
Name Something A Bartender Probably Tired Custmr
Name Something That Spies In Movies Always Carry
Name Something That Youd Want To Avoid If You Wore A Toupee.
Profession That Would Make Women Think Twice About Marrying
Name An Expression That Begins With The Word First
Name A Kids Movie That Most Adults Have Seen Too.
Name Something A Disneyworld Character Forbidden Costume
Name Something People Do At A Bar Besides Drink
Name Something Better In The 50?s
Name Something A Parent Might Miss About Their Younger Years
Name Something You Might Sign Up For If You Like To Receive Mail
Name Something A Male Rock Star Might Do To Make Himself Look More Rebellious.
Name Something That Can Make You Look Older Than Your Age.
Name The First Thing You Would Do If You Were Stranded On A Deserted Island.
Name The Most Stressful Job To Have On A Cruise Ship
What Would Make You Leave Restaurant Before Ordering
At A Spookhouse, What Do You Do To Make The Experience Less Scary?
What Profession Would You Want Mate To Have Useful House
In The Movies, Name A Specific Place A Damsel In Distress Might Get Trapped Or Face Danger.
Name A Term For Someone Who Thinks Very Highly Of Himself
Name A Food That Comes In Packs Of Six Or More
Name Something About His Job That Santa Claus Might Brag About.
Name Something Your Parents Look For In Your Date, Although You May Not
If You Went On A Camping Trip By Yourself, What Might You Spend The Week Doing?
Name A Body Part That Gets Clothed In Winter, But Stays Naked All Summer.
Name Something A Kid Might Do At The Dinner Table That Would Probably Get Him In Trouble.
Name Something You Would Need If You Were Putting On A Rock Concert.
Name A Cartoon Movie That Makes You Cry Even As An Adult
Name Something People Like To Listen To Music While Doing
Besides An Office, Place To Find Copy Machine
Name A Kids Game A Grown Man Would Look Pretty Silly Playing
Tell Me A Question That Twins Are Often Asked
Name An Animal Character That Talks In The Movies
Name A Dessert You Might Not Serve At A Fancy Dinner Party.
Name Something That Lives In The Ocean That Most People Wouldnt Eat
Name A Famous Woman Who Speaks With An Accent To Americans.
Tell Me A Word People Use To Describe Female Babies But Not Male Babies
Name Something Specific That Takes Longer To Dry, Than To Wash.
Animal Shape In Box Of Animal Crackers
Name A Place Where You Nap Just To Pass The Time
What Occupation Might Someone Have If They Carry A Folder Marked Top Secret?
Name Something That You Might Find Around A Pool
Name Something That A Couple Often Does Once The Kids Have To Move Out
Name A Reason Your Eyes Might Water
Name A Reason Your Eyes Might Water.
Name Something That Usually Comes In Sets Of 12
Tell Me Something You Over-Did As A Teenager, That You Can Laugh About Today.
Name Something You Should Always Keep Secret, Even From Your Partner.
Name One Word That You Always See On The Covers Of Celebrity Magazines
Name Something A Health Nut Order Lunch Without
What Might You Do After Eating Dinner?
Theyve Cloned A Sheep: Name A Creature They Should Never Clone Because We Already Have Too Many.
As Newlyweds Name Something You Disagreed On How To Do
Name Something You Might Be Hired To Do For A Wedding
Name A TV Gameshow You Think You Have A Good Chance Of Winning
Name Something That Jocks In High School Dont Do Same As Their Peers
If You Forgot Your Dates Name, What Might You Call Them Instead?
Name Something More Difficult To Do With Glasses On
Name Something Or Someone At A Nightclub
Name Something About RapunzelS Hair She MightVe Worried About
What Is The First Thing You Would Do After A Fender Bender?
What Word Would You Use To Describe A Very Attractive Person
Name Something A Woman Might Complain That Her Husband Never Wants To Do
Name Something Specific Your Partner Did Early In Your Relationship That You Wish They Still Did Now?
Name A Complaint A Pregnant Women Might Have
What Does Las Vegas Have Per Capita That Other Cities Dont
Name A Kind Of Bell
Name Some Place Where Not Allowed To Make Noise
Name An Animal That Associated With Being Dirty
Name A Place Where Youre Asked To Turn Off Cell Phone
Name Something A Man Wouldnt Want To Have Happen To Him While Hes Giving A Speech
Name A Place That You Wouldnt Want To Go After Having A Few To Drink
If There Was A School For Beauty Queens, Name A Skill That Would Be Taught There.
Name A Halloween Costume Adults Wear To Look Sexy.
Activity People Did More Of Before TV
Name A Pasttime More Respectable Than Watching Tv
Name A Food You Cook For Which You Dont Need To Read A Recipe
Name A Job On Your Feet All Day
Which Quality Do You Think A Boss Looks For First When Hiring A New Employee?
Name Something You Need In Order To Get A Great Job
Tell Me Something Youd Be Reluctant To Buy From A Rummage Sale
After A Week Of Camping, What Luxury Oh Home Are You Most Excited To Have Again?
Name Something A King Has That Other Men Dont
Name Someplace Were Youd See A Lot Of People Gossiping
Name Something A King Has, But Most Men Dont.
What Souvenir Would You Bring Back From Hawaii
Which Luxuries Are People Least To Give Up When On A Budget
Name Something A Patient Might Do That Would Make A Dentist Complain?
Name Something A Teenager Couldnt Live Without
Which Profession is Least Likely To Have A Wild Night Life After Work
Name Something The Doctor Begins To Check As You Get Older.
Name A Product That People Might Buy Only One Brand Of
Name A Food You Eat With Your Fingers
Name Something Specific You Would Not Eat On Diet
Name A Sympton That Would Cause You To Say, I Think Im Coming Down With Something.
If Santa Claus Had A Christmas Party, Name Someone He Might Invite
Name An Animal Or Person Who Might Spend Time In A Tree
Name A Food That Would Be Disgusting To Be Fed Romantically.
Name A Drink Or Food That Can Be Eaten Either Hot Or Cold.
Name A Word Or Phrase Ends In Bone
What Do College Students Do That Annoys Their Professors The Most?
Name A Fruit That People Might Add To Jell-o
Name A Game People Play At Picnics
Name Something An Experienced Parent Does Automatically When They Pick Up A Crying Baby.
A Mistake Determined Never To Make Again
Name Something In Your House Might Get Broken In Wild Party
Name Something People Associate With A Christmas Carol By Charles Dickens.
Besides Ice Cream, Name A Food That Can Be Scooped.
Name A Food Almost Everyone Knows How To Make
What Are Some Things Truckers Might Take With Them On A Trip?
What Traffic Signs Describe Your Life Style?
Name Something You Associate With Fairy Tales
Name An Animal With Sharp Teeth
Name A Male Comedian, Past Or Present, Known Funny Monologues
Name Something You Keep In Your Cars Glove Compartment.
Name An Inappropriate Place For Couple To Start Smooching
Name The Worst Thing To Have To Share With A Sibling
When A Couple Break Up What Might One Want Back
Name A Complaint People Have About Their Cell Phones
Name A Holiday Food People Plan To Avoid, But End Up Eating Anyway.
Name A Food That Doesnt Need To Be Refrigerated
Name Something Youd Be Afraid To Do By Yourself
Name A Profession Where People Go Into Strangers Houses
Name Something That, Once You Do It, Neighbors Start Doing It
Name Something A Person Does That Slows Down The Checkout Line At The Supermarket
Name The Worst Part About Riding The Bus.
Name A Country Known For Having Beautiful Weather.
Name a Rowdy Star Who Might Benefit From Going To Charm School
Name Something People Keep Money In
Name A Type Of Club
Name The Last Person You Go To For Relationship Advice
Name Something In A Submarine Sandwich
Name A Movie Based On A TV Show Or Skit
Name An Odor Thats So Distinct, You Know Right Away What It Is
If An Elvis Impersonator Had Rummage Sale, Find?
Name Something That People Use Less In The Summer Than In The Winter
Name Something Youd See A Lot Of In California
Name Something That Can Go Wrong During A First Kiss With Someone
Tell Me Something You Did In High School Still Do At Work
Name Something You Might Find On Top Of A Tall Office Building
Tell Me A Persons First Name Could Be Man Or Woman
Name Something You Might Take On African Safari
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Not Want Their Phone Number listed In The Phone Book.
Name Famous Gospel Singer
Why Might Someones Phone Number Be Unlisted?
If You Live In A City, Name Ways To Get To Work
If You Lived On Sesame Street, Which Character Would Get On Your Nerves?
Name Something Kid Takes If Planning To Run Away
Name an Article Of Clothing Worn By Both Men And Women.
Name Something People Try To Get Out Of
Name Something A Family Uses In Their Home A Robot Family Wouldnt Need
Name An Animal That You See On A Motivational Poster
Other Than A Bar, Name A Place Where Its Common To Get Hit On.
Name An Animal With A Terrifying Bite.
Name Something A Department Store Might Sell Out On A Hot Day
Name Something You Would Do If You Were A Supermodel
After Getting All Dressed Up, Date Is Taking You
Name A Sport Shaquille ONeal Look Ridiculous Competing In
Unlike Honey Bun, Name A Breakfast Food That Doesnt Make A Good Pet Name
Name Something A Police Officer Needs A Lot Of
Name Something You Try To Get Rid Of That Always Seems To Come Back.
Name A Reason Why A Man Might Seem Too Immature To Date
Name Something You Might Find In A Hospital
Name A Celebrity From Decades Ago, Whos Still Thought Of As A Style Icon.
Name A Country That Is Known For Their Beer
Name A Us City On The Ocean.
Real Occupation A Kid Might Idolize Like Superhero
Name Something Kids Get Away With In Schools Today, That They Wouldnt Have 50 Years Ago.
Name A Souvenir People Collect That Has A Citys Name On It.
What Would You Do In A Job Interview That Would Guarantee You Dont Get The Job.
Name Something Specific You Often Run Out Of Space To Write On
Name A Food That Is Chocolate Covered
Reason Someone Might Send You Flowers
Name Something You Do Driving But Never On A Drivers Test
Name A Vehicle That You Can Hear Coming Before You See It
Something YouD Hate For Your Date To Be Allergic To
Name Something That Makes An Otherwise Average Person Seem Very Atrractive
Name Something YouD Hate For Your Date To Be Allergic To
Real Or Fictional, Name A Famous Man With Long Hair
Name Something You Do More Of When Someones Taking A Home Video Of You.
Name Something You Always Forget If You Dont Write It Down
Name A Type Of Professional That You Seldom See Joking Around.
What Grade Were You In School When You Developed Your First Crush?
Name Something A Teen Wouldnt Be Able To Go Without For A Day.
How Much Does The Average Supermodel Weigh?
In Minutes, How Long Is Your Commute To Work?
Tell Me How Much Youd Expect To Pay For A Bottle Of Wine At A Fancy Restaurant.
How Much Do You Expect To Spend If Youre Taking A Date Out For A Nice Dinner? Please Round To Nearest $10.
Tell Me How Many Times Most Men Get Their Haircut In A Year (Numeric Only)
At What Age Do People Stop Looking Forward To Birthdays?
How Old Were You When You Had Your First Crush
Tell Me How Much A Room At A Cheap Motel Costs. (Use Money Format $0.00)
At What Age Do People Usually Learn To Play Their First Musical Instrument?
Tell Me The Age At Which Children Start Buying Their Parents Christmas Gifts.
How Many Times A Mother Changes Newborns Diaper
How Many Pairs Of Pants Does The Average Man Own?
At What Age Is It OK For A Child To Walk Home From School By Themselves?
Tell Me The Age When Boys Stop Playing With Stuffed Animals (Numeric Only).
Tell Me The Most Number Of People That Could Squeeze Into A Telephone Booth (Numeric Only)
Name A Type Of TV Show A Man Might Be Embarrassed To Say He Watches A Lot Of.
Tell Me Something Youd Hear On The Radio That Would Lead You To Believe That The Host Is Inexperienced.
Name Something You Cant Be Afraid Of If You Want To Become A Fisherman
Name Something In Your Car That Can Be Turned On And Off.
Name A Reason A Person Might Wear A Disguise.
Name Something People Carry On Their Shoulders.
Name Something You Want To Know When You Run Into A Friend You Havent Seen In Years?
Name A Country To Which American Jobs Are Being Outsourced
Name Something You Might Know Your Partners Password For
Name A Place Where People Are Asked To Rise
Name Something Cats Hate
Besides Chocolate Chip, Name A Popular Cookie
Name Something People Associate With Niagara Falls.
Name Something You See Cheerleaders Do That Would Look Strange To See People Doing Otherwise.
Name Something People Dont Want To Do In Front Of Somebody Theyre Dating, Until They Get Serious.
Name Something A Camper Does While Camping That He Wouldnt Do At Home.
Name Something Youve Ridden On Only A Handful Of Times In Your Life.
Name Something Youd See At A Dog Show, But Not At A Beauty Pageant.
Name Something Specific Farmers Grow In Their Fields
Name A Reason Why Some TV Commercials Are More Irritating Than Others.
Give Me A Persons First Name That Rhymes With Silly.
Tell Me A Name Thats Common For Cats To Have.
Name A Kind Of Ticket People Wait In Line To Buy
Many Hunters Wear Camouflage In The Woods, Name A Pattern Youd Be Surprised To See A Hunter Wear.
If You Were Going To Be A Contestant On Jeopardy, Name A Specific Subject Area Youd Want To Memorize Beforehand.
Name Something That Your Spouse Has Accused You Of Stealing.
Name A Type Of Sport That Might Be Cancelled Because Of Rain.
Tell Me The Worst Thing To Have Break If Youre Stuck In Bed On Doctors Orders
Name Something People Like To Drink At Bedtime.
Name An Occupation Where People Are Paid To Tell Others What To Do (More Specific Than Boss).
If A Person Is A Driver For A Living What Specific Type Of Vehicle Might He Drive?
Name Something That Causes Your Spouse To Snore Worse Than Usual.
Name Something Kids Use For Fun, But Adults Use For Exercise.
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Dress Up Like A Cowboy.
Name Something A Bachelor Might Buy For His Bedroom To Make It More Romantic.
What Do People Start Having More Of In Their Car Once They Have Kids?
Name Something A Person Might Do With Chewing Gum That Other People Think Is Rude.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Makes You Feel Like You Cant Move
Name An Article Of Clothing That Makes You Feel Like You Cant Move.
Which Item Of Clothing Will You Wear More Than Once Before Washing It?
Other Than Drink Coffee, What Do People Do While At A Cafe
Name Something You Hope Doesnt Happen When Holding Someones Baby.
Name Something A Baby Learns To Do Even Before It Can Talk
Name Something You Hope Your Friend Doesnt Do When House Sitting For You.
Name A Sport Whose Athletes Wear Hats.
Tell Me Something That Kids Ride With Ease, But An Adult Would Be Afraid To Ride.
Besides Video Games, Name Another Kind Of Game You Can Play At An Arcade.
Name Something A Family Might Do On Vacation At A Winter Lodge.
Name Something Parents Let Their Kids Do In The Past, That Would Make Them Seem Like Bad Parents Today
Name Something A Boy Might Wear That Is Likely To Get Him Kicked Out Of Prep School.
Name Something You Do On Christmas And Your Birthday
What Is The First Thing People Do If They Encounter A Bear In The Woods?
Name A Habit That Would Be Impossible To Hide From Your Spouse
When Wading In A Lake, Tell Me Something You Feel Against Your Feet
Name Something A Knight Needs For A Jousting Match
Tell Me An Occupation In Which It Could Be Disastrous To Fall Asleep On The Job.
Name Something A Costume Character May Have To Remove Their Head To Do
Name Something You Buy To Go With A Guitar.
Name An Occupation Where Women Are Often Portrayed As Sexy?
Name Something You Take A Deep Breath Before Looking At
Name A Two-Word Term That Starts With Secret.
Name A Instrument That Can Sound Whiny
Name Something People Know About Spiders.
Name An Occupation In Which Youd Probably Go Through A Lot Of Sunscreen.
Name An Actor Who Also Has A Rock Band?
Name Something At A Restaurant That Might Keep Getting Refilled
Name Something You Cut With Scissors.
Name A Place Where Its Hard To Talk Because Of All The Background Noise
Name A Fruit They Put In Ice Cream
Name Something You Might Have To Put Up With An At Outdoor Cafe That You Wouldnt When Eating Indoors
Name A Place Where You Can Always Find A Taxi
Name Something A Caveman Might Do To Impress A Cavewoman
Name Something You Might Drive Over That Would Cause A Bumpy Ride
Name Something That Politicians Would Be Better Off Without
What Topic Would You See In A Womens Magazine Thats Never In A Mens Magazine?
Name Someone Bart Simpson Would Block From Becoming His Friend On Facebook.
In Order To Seem Like A Regular Guy, Name A Place Where A Politician Might Hang Out.
Name A Business That You Wish Stayed Open Later.
Name A Good Occupation For Someone Who Likes To Be The Center Of Attention
Name Another Word For Little.
Name The Best Thing That Is Now Available Digital, But Hasnt Always Been
Name A Type Of Book That Youre Not Expected To Read All Of.
Name Something A Womans Doctor Might Advise Her Not To Wear.
If You Were The Incredible Hulk, Tell Me What Part Of Your Day Would Most Likely Turn You Into A Monster.
Besides Passengers, Who Might You See At A Subway Station?
Name A Food Item A Restaurant Might Offer As All-You-Can-Eat.
Name Something That A Game Show Host And A Good Teacher Have In Common
Name Something A Couple Might Worry About Having Less Of Once They Have Children
Name A Shakesphere Character Who Most People Have Heard Of.
Name Something Construction Workers Wear
Name A Movie Involving An Elephant.
Name A Place Where Its Always Rainy.
Name Something At A Rock Concert That You Dont Pay To See, But See Anyway.
Name A Sign You Might See Posted In A Restaurant.
Name A Food That You Rinse Off Of A Dish Immediately Or It Becomes Hard As A Rock
Name Something Youd Find On The Cover Of A Novel.
Name Something You Would Buy A Lot Of When Hosting A New Years Party.
Name Something Youve Come To Realize Youre Too Old To Put Up With.
Tell Me A Reason Why A Kid Would Not Go Swimming All Summer Long
Name A Reason Youd Go By A Nickname Instead Of Your Full Name
Name Something Every Newlywed Hopes Their Mother-In-Law Will Be Like
Name Something A Boy Scout Wouldnt Need To Start A Fire, But You Do
What Words Do Kids Usually Use To Describe Something They Like?
Name Something That You Can Adjust The Volume On
Name Someone In Her Life That A Woman Might Have A Crush On?
Name A Word Or Phrase That Begins With The Word Mouth.
Name A Place Where Theres Often A Line For The Womens Restroom.
Name A Type Of Profession Where Youd Be The Most Surprised To See Someone With A Tattoo.
Which Type Of Creatures Is Often The Villain In Fairy Tales?
Name Something Football Players Wear For Protection.
Name A Professional Who You Hate To Call Because The Bill Is To Expensive?
Name Something You Are Always Tempted To Steal From The Doctors Office.
Name An Extracurricular Activity That Parents Say Is Good For A Child.
Name A Food That Can Be Molded Into A Shape
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Look Like The Grim Reaper.
Name Something Naughty That Children Living In The White House Would Never Be Able To Get Away With
Name Something A Boss Might Ask His Secretary To Remind Him Of.
Name Something Of Yours That A Snoop Might Try To Get Access To.
Name Something That Is Personalized
Name A Famous Phrase From The Wizard Of Oz?
Name Something People Do In The Woods That Probably Annoys The Animals Living There
Name Something A Job Ad Should Tell You About The Job.
Name Something That Might Be On A Toothpick Inside A Fancy Drink
Name A Gift That A Very Practical Woman Would Not Be Impressed By Receiving From A Man.
Other Than Cotton, Name A Material Many Clothes Are Made Out Of.
Name Something Twins Might Always Share.
Name A Type Of Business Thats Convenient To Have In Your Neighborhood
Which Occupation Would You Expect A Guy Named Poindexter To Have?
Name A Downside To Being The Youngest Child In The Big Family.
Real Or Fictional, Name Someone Whos Associated With A Lamb
Name Something People Drink A Lot Of In The Summer
Name A Specific Part Of Your Body That The Doctor Might Say To Take Better Care Of
Name A Product Door-To-Door Salesman Used To Sell
Name A Product Door-To-Door Salesmen Used To Sell.
Name A Drink People Put Ice In.
Name Something Mick Jagger Does A Lot
Name Something Thats As American As Apple Pie.
Name A Person You Wouldnt Want To Get Tipsy In Front Of.
Name Something Youre Better Off Spending Too Much Money On Than Too Little.
Name A Fictional Character With Two Identities
Name Something You Wear That Covers Your Ears.
Name Something A Teen Might Take Off Before Going To Grandmas House For Dinner.
On Family Feud, Name Something The Host Asks Players About.
Name Something A Shy Man Might Wear To Hide His Face.
Name A Mountain Range Known For Skiing
Name A Room That Youd Find In A Mansion, But Not A Regular House
Name Something That People Often Write On The Back Of Postcards
Name Something You Might Lose As You Get Older.
Name A Type Of Wave That You Cant Ride On
We Asked 100 Husbands: If Your Wife Is Staring At You Over A Holiday Dinner, What Might She Be Telling You With Her Look
Name Another Word Or Phrase People Use To Say Good-Bye
Name Something Youd Learn To Do In Your First Swim Class
Name A Part Of A Boxers Body That Might Be Swollen After A Match
Name A Specific Way That You Wish Your Life Were Like A Hollywood Movie
Name Something A Cheerleader Has Lots Of.
Name A Type Of Party Thats Bound To Get A Little Out Of Hand.
Name A Public Place Where You Might Be Spotted Wearing Less Clothing Than Usual.
Name A Reason Why Youd Wake Your Spouse Up In The Middle Of The Night
Name A Weather Condition That Is 4 Letters Long
Name A Food Thats Made From Corn.
Name A Word That People Use To Avoid Swearing.
Name Something You Might Pay Extra For When Renting A Car
Duct Tape Can Fix A Lot Of Things, But Name An Expensive Item That It Would Probably Be Useless To Fix.
Name Something A Real Estate Agent Needs To Do His Job.
Name Someplace That Kids Need Their Parents To Drive Them
Tell Me A Smell Most People Hate.
Name A Foreign Language That Is Not Usually Offered In High School
Name A Heavy Animal That A China Shop Owner Wouldnt Let Into Their Store.
Name Something You Might Use A Flashlight While Doing
Name Something That Supermodels Would Rather Do Without.
Name Something At Your Company Holiday Party That Could Lead You To Embarrass Yourself.
Name Something Boy Scouts And Girl Scouts Both Learn To Do
Name A Good Occupation For A Woman Who Was Head Cheerleader.
Name Something You Might See In A Hunting Lodge
Name Something Youd Wear To A Roaring 20s Themed Party.
Name Something You Order At McDonalds That Youd Never Order At A Fancy French Restaurant.
What Is The Most Used Room In Most Homes?
Why Might A Person Use Stairs Instead Of The Elevator?
Name Something Specific People Put Salsa On
Name A Place On Your Body That You Cant Scratch When It Itches
Name Something That A Circus Performers Parents Would Cringe At Seeing Him Perform.
Name A Place A Baby Sticks His Fingers That Hes Not Supposed To
What Kind Of A Weather Event Makes The Front Page Of The News?
Name Something That Would Prevent A Person From Becoming A Pilot.
In The Heat Of A Passionate Moment, Which Disney Characters Name Would Be Hardest To Say With A Straight Face
Name Something Doctors Are Always Telling People To Stop Doing
Name A Piece Of Information That Can Be Found On A Prescription Bottle.
Name Something Kids Insist On Doing By Themselves Even If It Takes A Long Time.
Name A Talk Show You Might Go On To Tell About Your Disaster Wedding.
Name A Public Place Where You Undress
Name Something That Has Bubbles In It.
What Might A Celebrity Do That Causes People To Criticize Him?
Name Something That Might Get You To Watch A New TV Show
Name Something People Use Pins For.
Name Something An Auto Racer Hopes Wont Happen To Him During A Race.
Name Something You Spray On Yourself That Would Sting If It Got In Your Eyes.
Name Something The Government Knows About You, But You Wouldnt Talk To A Co-Worker About.
Name Something That Would Cause You To Quit Your Job On Your First Day
Name Something Snoopy Does That Your Dog Would Not
Name Something A Rock Musician Might Do During A Concert That Would Look Funny For A Classical Musician To Do.
If Peter Pan Had A Phone, Name Someone Hed Probably Have On Speed Dial.
Name A Reason Why Basements Are Often Less Cozy Than The Rest Of A House
Name A Type Of TV Show That You Cant Imagine Having An Audience Laugh Track.
Name Something People Run For.
Name Something You Might Need If Youre Eating A Lobster
Name An Occasion That It Would Not Be Fashionable To Arrive Late To.
Name A Place Where You Would Not Be Allowed To Chew Gum.
Name An Image Thats Often Used In Ads At Thanksgiving.
Name A Magazine Teenagers Buy.
Name A Place Where Someone Might Practice Driving For The First Time.
Name Something Your Mom Told You Was The Key To A Happy Marriage
Where Were You The Last Time You Had A Bit Too Much To Drink.
What Can You Consult For Directions When Youre Lost?
Why Might A Person Refuse To Remove Their Shoes At A Party?
Name Something A Person Sits Next To On A Hot Day
Name Someone Who Might Make A Speech At A Wedding.
Name A Reason Parents Might Want Their Kid To Go To A Particular College.
Name Someone Who Might Work At A Mansion.
Name Something That Can Make An Ordinary Dinner Romantic.
Name A Specific Bowl Game That Takes Place During The Holidays
Name Something A Housekeeper Uses As Part Of Her Job
Name Something A Student Might Turn On When Theyre Studying.
Name A Creature That, Until It Moves, You Dont Know Its Head From Its Tail.
Name Something You Can Test In The Store Before Buying It
Name Something That Might Have Nuts In It?
Name A Part Of The Body Thats Often Sore After Exercise.
When You Were A Little Kid, Where Did You Think Babies Came From.
Name A Feature TV Sets Have Today That They Didnt Have 50 Years Ago
Besides A Waiter, Name A Job At A Restaurant.
Name Something You Might See In A Museum About The Old West.
Name Something People Do To Make Their Breath Smell Good.
Name Something Specific That Must Be Really Hard For Astronauts To Do While In Space.
Name Something People Eat With Chili.
Name Something A Bird Watcher Carries With Them
Name Something Cindy Crawford Is Known For
Name A Famous Past Or Present Couple Who Youd Hate To Live Next Door To.
In Order To Solve A Crime, What Does An Investigator Need To Find?
Name A Sport That Can Only Be Played Outdoors In The Winter?
Name Something People Do To Their Hair That Makes Them Look Silly.
Name The Last Thing You Read On The Internet That You Wish You Hadnt.
Tell Me Something You Would See In A Blues Brothers Movie.
Name Something A Goldfish Might Complain About
Besides Books, Name Something People Read.
Name Something Dogs Are Trained To Find
Name A Place Where Everyone Seems To Be In A Good Mood.
Name A Situation Where You Wouldnt Want Someone Looking Over Your Shoulder.
Name Something You Cant Be Afraid Of If You Want To Become A Vampire
What Do You Do If Youre Eating At A Friends House, And Dont Like The Food?
We Asked 100 Wives: Name A Place In The House Where Your Husband Spends More Time Than You Do
Name A Chain Store Thats Put A Lot Of Mom And Pop Stores Out Of Business
Name Something You Know About Shaquille ONeal.
Name A Type Of Event That Adults Dress Up To Go To But Kids Would Find Boring?
Name Something A Shoe Salesman Might Complain About.
Name Something Karaoke Singers Use For Help, But A Real Singer Shouldnt Need.
Name Something You Would Do In Front Of Children, But Would Be Embarrassed To Do In Front Of Other Adults
Besides Your Mother, Name A Female Who Told You What To Do While You Were Growing Up
If You Were Turned Into A Bird, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do
Name An Occasion Where You Might Send Out Invitations.
Name Something A President Probably Has With Him Everywhere He Goes?
Name A Profession Youd Shoot For If You Wanted To Be Famous.
Name Something Your Physician Asks That Would Be Strange To Ask A Person Who You Just Met.
What Part Of The School Day Might A Kindergartener Look Forward To?
Name A Fruit That You Might Accidentally Swallow The Seeds Of.
Name Something People Might Buy For Their New Goldfish.
Name A Sound Youd Hear At A Boxing Match
Name Something A Reality Show Is Incomplete Without.
Name A Way In Which Sitcom Characters Are Typically Different From Real People
Name Something A Firefighter Needs A Lot Of
Name Something A Person Might Change After Breaking Up With A Partner.
Name An Occupation Where You Have To Be Really Smart
Name A Profession Where Neatness Counts
Name Something Your Spouse Does To Let You Know Theyre In The Mood For Love.
When Traveling Overseas, Tell Me The Ideal Amount Of Time To Be Away From Home
Name A Controversial American President
Which North Pole Resident Is Most Likely To Become Jealous Of Santas Power?
Tell Me How Fast Most People Drive On The Freeway. (Numeric Only)
Name Something You Do When Approached By A Salesperson At A Store.
How Many Days Does A Cold Last?
Name Something That Gets Rolled Out.
Name Something You Might Do After Your House Has Been Robbed.
Name Something A Teenage Boy Might Ask His Dad For.
Name Something People Do On Ice
Name Something That Might Cause A Real Life Family Feud Among Neighbors.
Name A Way You Might Be Able To Tell What Someone Just Had For Lunch.
Name Something That Has Springs In It.
Name A Specific Quality That Would Make Your Buddy A Bad Wing Man
What Did 100 Wives Say Their Husbands Always Think Theyre Right About In An Argument?
Name Something That Superstitious People Believe Will Bring Bad Luck.
Name Something That You Could See On An Alaskan Cruise That You Probably Wouldnt See On A Caribbean Cruise
Name Something That Comes In A Bottle
Tell Me An Activity That Some People Are Told To Do More Of, And Others Are Told To Do Less.
Name Someone You Might Tip At A Hotel
Tell Me Something You Would Let Your Dog Do, But Not Your Child.
Name A Way That You Wish Your Life Was More Like Your Cats Life
Name Something You Do To Your Lawn That You Would Never Do To Your Wall-To-Wall Carpet.
Name Something People Do While Telling A Lie That Gives Them Away.
Name A Reason Why Parents Say That Childhood Is Better Than Adulthood.
Name A Fruit That Starts With The Letter P.
Name Something People Go To That Might Be Sold Out
Name A Beverage Thats Not Sweet
We Asked 100 Husbands: If Your Wife Had A Personal Assistant, Name Something Theyd Be Asked To Do.
Name A Famous Male, Real Or Fictional, Who Wears Tights
Name Something About Wonder Woman The Average Woman Might Envy
Why Might Someone Who Doesnt Like Reading Go To The Library?
Name Something Ugly That Can Grow On Your Feet
Name Something A Kid Might Do To Get Out Of Taking A Bath
Other Than Sleep, Name Something You Do While Lying Down
Name A Word That Starts With F That Best Describes Your Cat
Name A School Supply That You Havent Used Since You Were Young.
Name A Specific Food Thats Hard To Cook Well, Without Burning
Name A Type Of Sauce That Youd Never Put On Pasta
Name An Occasion Or Place Where You Would Not Admit That You Dont Like The Food.
Name A Way That People Spoil Their Pets.
Other Than An Alarm, What Do People Use To Wake Them Up?
Name A Baby Farm Animal That A Child Would Probably Want To Keep As A Pet.
Name Something In Your Wallet That Might Be Used For An ID
What Might A Girl Wear For The First Time To Her Junior High Dance?
Tell Me Something A Woman Might Do To Spoil Herself (More Specific Than Spa).
Name A Movie About Baseball Players
Name Something People Do With Their Dogs That They Dont Do With A Pet Goldfish.
Name A Minor Ailment You Cant Stop Your Body From Doing, But Would Dread Having Happen At Your Wedding Ceremony.
Name A Reason Why A Student Might Be Moved To The Front Of The Class
Name An Activity Some Men Do With Their Buddies Where Wives Arent Invited
If Your Cat Learned To Speak, Name Something It Would Ask For
Which Traditional Dish Would You Prepare For Somebody Learning About American Culture?
Name A Patriotic Song
Name Something People Put On The Outside Of Their Car.
Name A Way People Get To Work In The Morning.
Name Something That Farmers 100 Years Ago Did By Hand, But Now Do With Machines.
Name A Sport Where Players Lose Teeth.
When Living In An Apartment, Name Something You Can Often Hear Your Neighbors Doing.
Name A Service A Hotel Provides That You With You Had At Your House.
Name Another Word For Ugly.
Where In Your House Do You Look For Something Thats Been Packed Away For Winter?
Name Something People Take Along To Make A Long Car Ride Go Faster.
What Might You Find In Your Food That Belongs To The Cook?
Name A Department Store Where People Shop During The Holidays.
Name Something You Should Always Carry Extra Of When Flying By Plane.
What Might A Bankrobber Wear In Order To Keep His Identity A Secret?
Name An Expensive Food That You Wouldnt Serve At A Kids Birthday Party
Name Something People Do With Pennies.
Tell Me A Reason You Might Be Low On Sleep.
Name Something Oprah Winfrey Has That The Average Woman Admires.
Name Something A Deejay Needs To Play A Gig.
Name A Job From Which You Would Come Home Smelling Really Good.
Name A Reason Why A Man Might Delay Proposing To His Girlfriend.
Name Something That Might Be Carved Into A Christmas Ice Sculpture.
If You Were Designing An Airport, Name Something Youd Make Sure There Was A Lot Of.
Name Something A Pet Might Do To Its Owners Shoes.
Name Something About You That Has Not Changed As Youve Gotten Older
Name A Piece Of Information That Might Be On A Dogs Tag.
Name A Specific Occupation Where They Wear Sneakers.
What Does A Businessman Use When Making Speeches, But Pastors Dont During Their Sermons?
Name Something Kids Look Forward To
Name A Door That Youd Hate To Leave Unlocked Accidentally
Name Something You Tap.
What Would You Be Surprised To See A Child Do At A Bowling Alley?
Name An Office Supply That Youd Be Surprised To See On Your Kids List Of School Supplies.
Besides Your Plane Ticket, Name Something You Can Spend Money On At An Airport
Name A Reason You Might Have To Get A Change For A Dollar
Name A Member Of The Celebrity Elite Who Is Famous For No Apparent Reason.
Name Something A Driver Might Do When He Sees A Police Car.
Other Than A Canvas, Name Something That You Put Paint On.
Name An Appetizer You Might Find Served At A Bar
Name An Animal Thats Usually Not Dangerous, But Many People Are Afraid To Touch
Name Something You Need When Youre Moving.
Which Piece Of Playground Equipment Has Probably Resulted In The Most Injuries?
Name Something You Wave In The Air.
Name Something A Baby Doesnt Have That Most Adults Do
Name a profession that would help you be good at solving crossword puzzles.
Name Something That Would Make You Suspicious If Your Date Said He Didnt Have Any.
Name Something Peoiple Subscribe To By Month
Name A Famous Howard.
Name A Piece Of Information Youd Include In A Personals Ad But Not On A Resume.
Name Something Specific That People Flip
Name Something People Serve With Biscuits.
What Might You Do On Family Feud, That Makes Your Family Upset With You?
Name Something You Use To Decorate Your Face For Halloween
What Might A Health Inspector Find In A Restaurant That Causes It To Get A Poor Score?
Name A Reason Why A Particular Kid Might Be Popular In School
Name Something That Has A Lock On It
Name A Country That Usually Does Well In The Olympics.
Name something a teenager would hate to be the last of their friends to do.
If you were to open Heartbreak Hotel, name something youd offer your brokenhearted guests.
Name A Way You Can Tell A Storm Is Coming
Tell Me Something That Causes Skin To Turn Red.
Name A Movie With The Word Dr. In The Title.
Name A Comfort Food That Has Cheese In/On It.
What Thanksgiving Dish Would Do The Least Damage If Thrown At You IN A Food Fight?
Name Something An Employee Sitting In The Cubicle Next To You Might Do That Annoys You.
Name Something A Kindergarten Teacher Wears To Work That A Banker Never Would
Name A Place You See A Lot Of Green Grass.
If you were a celebrity for a day,name a place or event youd try to get into.
Name Something People Know About Richard Nixon
Name Something Associated With Zorro
Name A Type Of Professional Who Might Overcharge If You Dont Know Any Better.
Name An Article Of Clothing Some Women Try To Wear As Tight As Possible
Name Something Stressful That Couples Do Together
Name Something You Associate With The Dallas Cowboys.
Name Something People Burn In Protest.
Name The Article Of Babies Clothing That Grown Adults Are Most Shocked By When Seeing Its Tiny Size.
What Are Some Things That People Send By Email That They Used To Send Through The Mail?
Name A Kind Of Pyramid.
Name Something A Woman Would Be Foolish To Apply Makeup Before Doing.
Name Something A Pizza Delivery Person Hates About Their Job
We asked 100 Women: At what age is a man most handsome?(NUMBERS ONLY)
What kind of nut butter could you use if you were allergic to peanuts?
Name an animal that can live in the cold.
Tell me something that makes you mad when youre watching TV.
Name something you might see a picture of on a postcard from Hawaii.
Name something your partner might do first thing in the morning that wakes you up.
If you just ran a marathon,what would you need to do after the race was over?
Past or present,name a presidential couple whose dinner conversations youd love to eavesdrop on.
For what reason might you suspect that the person youre dating is in the mob?
Name a piece of kidss play equipment that adults would probably hurt themselves using.
Name something a kid with a broken arm would have a hard time doing at school.
Name something a manicurist needs to do her job.
Name something everyone says theyre good at when at a job interview,even if its a lie.
Name an activity people like to do at a lake.
Name something you might find on a miniature golf course.
Name an activity you might do while on a Hawaiian honeymoon.
Name a job title someone might have in a big company.
Name a topping youd put on both a pizza and a taco.
Name something the worlds dumbest bank robber might leave at the scene of the crime
Name a cartoon character whos always getting hurt.
Name something that shines at night.
Name a sign your girlfriend might be turning into a mermaid.
Name something men try to cover up.
What body part is most important for a star to maintain?
Name a small creature who can be very noisy.
Name something risky that most people do at least once in their lifetimes.
Name a way that a mans voice might change when talking to his love interest.
Name a place in their home that people hide money.
Name something a person might be picky about.
Name something that house cleaners clean more often than you do(More specific than a room)
Name something you wouldnt want to discover in a hotel bed when checking into your room.
Name something you might put on top of a salad.
Name something a man might try to keep covered during a first date.
What Do Fast-Food Employees Have To Do, That 5-Star Wait Staff Dont?
Name A Noise That Causes Your Dog To Bark When He Hears It On TV.
Name Something Embarrassing That You Dont Want To Do While Asleep On A Plane Ride
Name Something That A Secretary Never Wants To Run Out Of At The Office.
Name Something A Hair Dresser Might Complain About A Customer.
Name Something People Check At Least Once A Day.
Other Than A Belt, Name Something That Can Have A Buckle.
Tell Me An Article Of Clothing That People Who Live In Warm Climates Are Likely To Have Several Of.
Name A Reason Why It Takes You Forever To Get Out Of The Grocery Store.
Name Something You Wish You Had In Your Backyard
Name Something That People Have A Desire To Smash.
If You Had No Teeth, Tell Me A Food You Couldnt Eat Anymore.
Name Something A Pro Athlete Might Do To Prepare For A Game.
Name An Occupation That Thinks Their Time Is More Important Than Yours.
Name An Article Of Clothing A Restaurant Might Require Its Customers To Wear.
What Might Someone Leave Out Of A Personals Ad, That Would Make You Think They Were Hiding Something?
Name A Reason Why Kids Might Have A Weekday Off Of School.
Name Something Thats Expensive To Replace If You Lose It.
Name An Article Of Clothing People Get Fitted For.
Name A Place On Your Body That Might Be Sore After A Day Of Shoveling.
Name A Class that Parents Enroll Their Kids In Before They Turn 3 Years Old.
If Youre A Parent, Name something You Take Into Account When Moving
Name A Type Of Business In Which You Might Have To Work Over THe Holidays.
Name A Method People Use When Deciding What Lotto Numbers Theyre Going To Play.
Name Something Youd Hate To Forget On A Ski Trip.
Name A Famous Animal From A Comic Strip.
Name A Reason A Teenaged Boy Would Have For Wearing A Suit.
What Line Of Work Should You Get Into If Your Hairstyle Is Stiff And Plastered With Hairspray?
Name A Really Big State.
What Might You Draw On A Picture Of Someones Face In Order To Make Them Look Silly?
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Play A Game Of Water Polo.
Name Something You See Trained Monkeys Doing In Sitcoms And Movies.
Name A Place Where People Dont Want To End Up
Name A Specific Stunt That Most Action Movie Heroes Probably Dont Do Themselves
Name A Character In The Wizard Of Oz That Would Require The Most Elaborate Costume.
Name Something An Airline Passenger Might Find There Isnt Enough Of On The Plane.
Name An Indoor Activity You Spend Much More Time Doing In Winter.
Name An Animal That A Person With Large Teeth Resemble.
Name something you might be on top of.
Besides A Book, Tell Me A Good Gift For Someone Who Loves To Read.
Name A Place Where You Would Find An Usher.
Name A Breakfast Food You Could Prepare Using Just One Hand.
Name A Game That Would Be Inappropriate At A Company Party.
On A Dating Website, What Activity Do People Often List As A Pastime?
Name Something In A Casino That May Give You A Headache.
Name something for which people shop around before buying
Name Something You Might Do On A Date In The Park.
What Might A Flower Gardener Name His Daughter?
Name Something Youd Find In A Boys High School Gym Locker Room.
Name Something You See At A WWE Match Youd Never See At A High School Wresting Match.
Name Something A Plane Cant Fly Without.
Name A Game Show That Gives Away A Lot Of Money.
Tell Me What Kids Hate Most About School.
If Someone Is Talking Too Much, What Might You Offer Them In The Hope Of Keeping Them Quiet?
Name A Place Where You Sit Until Your Name Is Called.
Name A Job Where Youd Need Great Vision.
Name Something You Might Pay Extra For When You Get Your Car Washed.
Name Something In A Womans Purse That A Man Would Never Ask To Borrow.
Tell Me Something That Can Momentarily Blind You.
Name Something That Love Gets Compared To In Pop Songs.
Name Something A First-Time Parent Would Need To Do Before The Baby Was Born.
What Might You Find Out About A House That Would Make You Back Out Of Buying It.
Name A Specific Item That A Man Carries Around That He Might Secretly Wish He Could Just Put In A Purse.
Name A Place Where Itd Be Rude For A Man To Go Without Wearing A Suit/Tuxedo.
Name Something You Might Ask A House Sitter To Do While Staying At Your Place
Name Something On Everyones Drivers License.
Name A Salad Thats Not Green.
Name Something People Turn On Just Before They Get In Bed.
Name Something You Might Change When Moving Into A New House.
Name Something That Gets Described As Festive
Name Something That A Waitress On Roller Skates Would Say Is Her Mortal Enemy. (More Specific Than Food/Drinks)
Name Something You Buy In A Larger Size If You Have A Large Family.
Name Something That Keeps You From Finishing A Jigsaw Puzzle.
Name Something That Happens To The Furniture Of A Person Who Owns Pets.
Name a Famous Mystery Writer
Name Something You Might Find In A Spook House
Name A Vegetable That They Make Baby Food Out Of.
Name An Organ People Might Have Removed.
Name Something You Might Find In A Tennis Bag.
What Kind Of Bread Would Be Horrible For Making A Sandwich?
Name Someplace Couples Went On Dates In The Fifties They Dont Usually Go Anymore
Name Something Teenagers Stress Out About.
Name Something Important That Youre Careful Not To Misplace When You Move.
Name An Occupation Where The Workdays Are Made Worse By Nasty Weather.
Tell Me A Way In Which Your Office Is Kind Of Like A Soap Opera.
Name Something That Expands In The Microwave.
Name A Place Where The Average Person Wouldnt Last A Day.
Name Something A Parent May Grill Their Daughters About
Name Something A Bankrobber Wants To Get Rid Of Quickly, So It Isnt Used As Evidence.
Tell Me Something A Wife Likes To Hear From Her Husband.
Name A Way People Choose The Lottery Numbers They Play.
Name A Website Everyone Has Heard Of
Name Something Some Siblings Have In Common That Others Dont
Name Something Associated With Garth Brooks
Name Something Associated With Melanie Griffith.
Name Something That Might Take Place In A Large Tent.
Which Website Would You Go To First If You Want To Find Out More About Something
Name Something Annoying That Cats Do.
Name An Occupation In Which People Often Use Their Middle Name Or Initial.
On A Dating Website, What Activity Do People Often List As A Pastime
Which Physical Characteristics Would Tell You That Someone Was Part Alien?
Besides Food, Name Something You Buy At A Supermarket
Name Something An Athlete Wouldnt Do The Night Before A Big Game
Living Or Dead, Name A Man Named Ted
Name Something Warn As A Part Of A Movie Theatre Uniform
Tell me something on TV that people make predictions while watching
Name Something Parents Tell Their Kids To Do So They Dont Get Sick During Flu Season
Name a beverage you can buy at a gas station
What will a friend do while eating that would make you want to move to another table
Name something that people pitch
Name something you associate with Richard Simmons
Whats The Best Thing About Going To The Drive-In
Name A Halloween Costume You See On Babies, But Rarely See On Their Parents
Name A Sport Where You Might See A Lot Of Athletes
Name Something For Which A Police Officer Might Give You A Ticket.
Tell Me A Breakfast Item That Only Tastes Good If Its Crispy
Name A Place On The Body That Women Tattoo, But Men Usually Dont
Tell Me A Name People Use To Describe Someone Who Talks To Much
Name A Type Of Sandwich A Kid Might Take To School
If You Want To Read A Book Without Paying For It, Where Might You Spend Too Much time
Besides Ice Cream And Popsicles, Name Something You Need To Be A Neighborhood Ice Cream Man
While eating at a restaurant,name something the waitress comes back to the table to do
Tell Me Something That Many People Are Too Shy To Do In Front Of Others
Name Something A Gardener Does A Lot Of On The Job
Name A Food kids Love To Eat For Breakfast
Name Something You Might Do In Front Of A Doctor, But Not In Front Of Most People Youve Just Met
Name Something Men Put In Their Shirt Pockets
What do you get at the dentist that makes going worthwhile
Which Superhero Would You Trust To Babysit Your Children
What Do cats Have the We Dont Have?
NameSomething Associated With Melanie Griffith
Name Something In A Persons House A Burglar Wouldnt Want To Steal
Name something People Try To recite Lines From
Name Something A Person trying To Quit Smoking Might Put In Their Mouth
What Is The Best Way To Spend A Snow Day
Name Something Associated With Jimmy Carter
Name Something Associated With The 50?s
What Might You See In An Email That Would Make Yo Think A Teen Wrote It
Name Something Every Newlywed Hopes Their Mother-In-Law Will Be
Name Something Every Woman Should Take With Her On Blind Date
What One Thing Would You Most Hate To Forget To Pack On A Trip
Name Something About Peter Pan That Is Different From The Average Boy
Name Something People Juggle
Name Something You Can Do With A Pumpkin Once Halloween Is Over
Name Something People Use To Smell Good, But You Wouldnt Use To Eliminate You Dogs Odor
Name Something Kids Are Afraid To Get From Their Teacher
Name One Word Youd See On The Cover Of A Womens Magazine, But Probably Not On A Magazine For Men
Name Something A Lot Of Movie Stars Have More Than One Of
Name Something You Might bring Home With From The Mardigras
Name A Place On The Body That Women Tattoo But Men Usually Dont
Name Something A MAn Asks His Friends For A Second Opinion On
name Something Every Woman Should Take With Her On A Blind Date
Why Might A Bride Or Groom Back Out Of Wedding At The Last Minute
Tell Me Something Nerdy You Had In High School Photos But Not In Photos Today
Name A Specific Task Restaurant Staff Does For You, That Youd Be Surprised To Get Charged Extra For
Name Someone Whos Known For Inventing Something
Name Someone Youd Hate To Show Up Late At Your Wedding
Who Would A Bride Not Want To Show Up Unannounced At Her Wedding?
Name A Card Or Board Game That Many Families Play Together
name Something restaurants Have In Them To Appear Fancier
Tell Me A Food That Goes Great With Beer
Name Things That Are Part Of The American Dream
Which Part Of Hotel Room Furnishings Is Often Tacky
Name A Reason You May leave A Blind Date Without Saying Goodbye
Tell Me Something A Woman Might Do To Spoil Herself (More Specific Than Spa
Name A Place Where You Can See Teachers Relaxing
Name A Celebrity Who Sells Products On Infomercials
Name Something A Man Might Do In The Beginning Of A Relationship That He Wont Do After About A Year
Name Something Naughty That A Grandpa Might Secretly Let His grandson get Away With
Name Something You Use To Cover Up Bad Smells In Your House
Name A Place Where Its Okay To Be Loud
If There Was No Speed Limit, How Fast Would You Drive On The Way To Work each Morning (Round To Ten)?
Name Something That Makes A Startling Sound
What occupation Might Someone Have That Makes You Think Theyd Have A Flair For Romance
Name Something That would Keep You From Sleeping On An Airplane
Besides Food, What Else Do You Buy At A Supermarket
Name Something Every College Freshmen Will Spend Money On
Name A Household Chore That You Do Less Frequently Because Its Barely Noticeable When Its Done
Tell Me A Reason You Like To Shop On Line
When Shopping For A New Pair Of Jeans, Name Something that Never Fits Quite Right
What Does A human Have That A Robot Doesnt
Name Something Thats Included When You Go On A Cruise
Name A reason Why A Dog Barks
What Might You See On The Side Of The Road
Name Something Youd Expect To Pay For At Disneyland
Name Something That Can Be Easily Be turned Off
Name Something Youre Not Supposed To Do To A CD
Name A Place You Wouldt Want To Be Alone At Night
Name A Word that people Yell At The TV While watching A Football Game
What Type Of Pet Might A Person Have If They Live In A Small Apartment
Name Something Youre Better Off Spending A Little More On, So It Lasts Longer
Name Something A Prisoner Might Daydream About Doing Once He Is Free
Name something Many Women Regularly Buy For Their Husbands, But Men Dont Buy For Their Wives ( More specific Then Clothes)
If Your Taking A Hawaiian Vacation, Name Something Youd Need To Buy Before You Go
Other Than Gambling, What Do Casinos Have Inside To Get Customers To Stick Around
Name Something Kids Start To Care More About Once Theyre Teenagers
Name something Specific A Married Couple Might Take Turns Doing
Name Something A Parent Might Put A Lock Or Gate On Once Their Baby Learns to walk
Name Something Many Parents Want Their Kids Home At A Certain Time For.
What Should A Clown Avoid Wearing When Not On Duty
Name A type Of Work Vehicle Thats Often seen As A Childrens Toy
Name Something That Youve Never Seen In Real Life, But You See At Least 3 Of In Every Action Movie
Name A reason You Might Be Less Productive Then Usual At Work
Name Something In Your car That Can Be turned On And Off
Name Something That gets fueled
Name A Talk Show You Might Go On To Tell About Your Disaster Wedding
Name An Occasion That Dracula Is Almost Always dressed For
Name Something You Always Bring Along For A Day Of Fishing
Name A Type Of TV Show That You Wouldnt Want To See Your Grandma On
Name A way To Travel For Free
Name Something Both A Logger And A Rock Star Wear
Name A Household Chore You Do While Sitting
Name An Animal Thats Black-And-White
Name Something A Cowboy Probably Leaves At Home For A Job Interview
Name The Age At Which People Stop Borrowing Money From Their Parents
Why Wouldnt You Want To be Bothered While On The Computer
if A Mouse Pad Were A Place Where Bachelor Mice Lived, What Would You Likely Find Inside
Name Someone Specific Who You wouldnt Want Viewing Your Facebook Page
What Are The Most Popular Types Of Flowers Used In A Wedding
Name A Common Pet That Would Be Weird To Actually Pet
Name A Hobby You Associate With Macho Men
Name A Muscle That A Body Builder Would Show Off
Name Something Adults Always Ask Kids About School
Name A Sport You Cant Compete In While Wearing Shoes
Besides Watching It, Name Something people Do In Front Of The Television
Name Something Specific About Your Parenting That Your Mother-In-Law Thinks You Should Do Differently
Name A Reason You Look Bad When You Have A Cold
Name Something A Woman Treats Better Than Her Husband
What Do You Think A High School Mascot Wears Under His Costume?
Name An Activity That Boys Do In A Tree House
Name The Sexiest Piece Of Clothing That A Woman Can Wear In Public
Name something from an art class that young children might take a taste of.
Name Something You Spend Less Time Doing When Youre On Vacation
Name A Complaint People Have About Late-night TV
If You Could Choose Your Neighbors, Which Traits Would You Look For?
Name Something Youd Put In A Breakfast Buritto
We Asked 100 Women:Which Accessory Or Piece Of Clothing Do You Buy Most Often?
Name Something Your Grandma Might Repair When It Gets Old, But You Just Buy A New One.
Tell Me Something A Child Might Complain About On A Road Trip.
Name Something Youre Supposed To Do With Both Hands, But People Often Use Just One.
Name Something Moms Are Desperate For.
Name Something That people Do That Distracts Them While Driving.
Who Or What Might Enter A House Without Using The Front Door?
Why Might Someone Prefer Online Dating Over Meeting In A Bar?
Name A Halloween Costume People Wear If They Dont Want To Go All Out
Name A Reason Why A Man Might Not Want His Wife To Have A Girls Night Out.
Name A Shakespeare Character Who Most People Have Heard Of.
Name something special a restaurant might do on certain nights in order to draw in customers?
Name Something A Girl In A Pageant Would Know How To Do, But Most Little Girls Wouldnt.
Name A Topic Most Men Cant Stand, But Many Women Could Discuss For Hours.
What do many people do on the day after thanksgiving.
Name Something Runners Do Right After They Finish A Marathon.
Name A Type Of Crisis That Usually Happens At Least Once In An Action Movie.
What Do People Bring Back As A Souvenir From Disneyworld?
If You Lived In Soap Opera Land, Name Something That Would Happen A Lot More Often.
Name A Time When You Should Not Send A Text Message To Your Love Interest.
Name A Place Youd Get A Dirty Look For Falling Asleep
Name A Time You Shouldnt Send A text Message To Your Love Interest
Tell Me The Age That Most People Want To Live Until.
What Are The Most Common Terms Of Endearment Used When A Person Is Talking To Their Partner
Name Something You Cant Do In A Home Gym Thant You Can Do In A Real Gym
Name Something A Kid Picks Up From School
Name Something Babies Need A Lot Of.
Name Something People Put On Their Salad To Make It Taste Better.
Name Something A Rich Woman Might Have.
Name A Kids Toy Your Parents Might Have Played With Thats still Around
Name Something Thats Usually Fruit-Flavored
If Your blind date walked In And You Didnt Feel A Spark, What Would YOu Do?
Instead Of A veil, What type Of Headwear Would You Be Surprise To See On A Brides Head?
Name Something In The Kitchen That Makes A Huge Mess If Its Spilled
Name A Topic Most Men Cant Stand, But Women Could Discuss For Hours
Name Something That Can Make You Sick On A Long Car Ride
Name something A House Needs In Order To Be Considered A Mansion
Name Something You Do While Watching A Scary Movie At Home, That You Cant Do In A Theatre
Name A Messy Food You Can tell A Kid Has Been Eating
How can You Tell The Show Youre watching Is Made Fore Kids?
Name Something Dog Owners Probably Wish Their Dogs Never Did
Name something That People Blow Up.
Name A recreational Activity Traditionally Don In Hot Weather
Name Something That Happens To An Old Persons Body, That Youd Be Surprised To Hear A teen Complaining About
Name a question Your Server Usually Asks At Least At A Restaurant.
how Many Hours Of Sleep Does The average person Need In Oder To Wake Up Refreshed?
Name A Fast Food Restaurant People Would Recognize By Their Sign.
When A Kid Says IM Bored, Name Something A Parent Often Suggests.
Other Than Love, Name Something That Money Cant Buy.
Name A Kind Of Pants You Cant Wear To Work.
If A Woman Had A Mid-Life Crisis, What Might She Do?
Name A Place Where It Would Be Strange To Go If You Didnt Have Kids.
Name Something Cheesy People Do In Family Portraits.
Name Something A Young Man Would Not Want To Talk To A Girlfriends Father About.
Name A Reason Why A Boss Calls An Employee Into His Office.
Name A Place That Almost No parent Would Forbid Their Child From Going.
Name A Job You Would Only Do At Night.
Name Something You Use To Bake A Pumpkin Pie.
What Name Would You Give Your Daughter If You Wanted To Name Her After A Queen?
Name Something A Restaurant Owner Would Hate To Tell Customers Theyve Run Out Of
Name Something People Take lots Of Photos Of During A Vacation. Be Specific.
Name Something You Can Do On Even The Oldest Of Computers.
Name A State That Many People Live In When They Retire.
If A Man Is Trying To Get A Date With A Woman, What Might He Do In Order To Woo Her?
Other Than Working, Name Something You Could Stop Doing If You Became A Millionaire.
Which Characteristics Would Make Dracula Sound Attractive In A Personals Ad?
How Can You Tell Somebody Is Angry At You From Their Text Messages?
What Do Roommates Fight About Most Often?
If You Could Choose, What Would Be An Ideal Place To Meet Your Future Mate?
Name Something Youd Hate To Lose At The Airport.
Name Something Thats Hard To Get Over.
Name Something Some Pets Wear, Although Its Usually Only Worn By Humans.
What Do People Miss About Their Youth?
Name Something People Compete Over.
Which Sports Are More Popular In America Than In Other Countries?
Name A Reason Why You Might Want To Hide From Someone At Work
Name An Occupation In Which You Might Be In A New City Every Night.
Name Something New Parents Have To Agree On Before their Baby Is born
Name A Place It Would Be Strange To Go If You Didnt Have Kids
If Money Isnt An Object, Who Do People Hire To Help Make Their Lives Easier?
What Do Most People Hope To Accomplish By The Time They Are 30?
What Might Someone Use While Cutting Their Own Hair?
Name Something You Do While Waiting In Line
Where Do You Get Your Christmas Tree From Each Year?
Name Something Specific That A Superhero Would Be Useless Without.
Where Might A Pet Lover Think Their Dog Should Be Allowed?
Name A Place Where You Get Antsy From Sitting Too Long.
At A Bar, How Can You Tell That Someone Is Interested In You?
Real Or Fictional, Name A Famous Cowboy
Name A Piece Of Paper You Were Nervous To Sign
Name Something You Change On Or In Your Car
Name A Term For Little Boy That Old Person Might Use
Name A Physical Characteristic A Store Might Look At When Hiring A Santa
Name An Animal That Stays With One Partner
Name The First Thing YouD Say To The Other Driver After A Fender Bender
Name A Place Where Youd Be Mortified If Your Cell Phone Went Off.
Name Something Moms Warn Their Children Will Make Them Catch A Cold.
What Might A Woman Have To Do In Order To Become A Supermodel?
Name An Occasion For Which Men Buy Gifts For Their Wives.
When Your Husband Gets Home After A Long Day Work, Ready To Do?
What Do Santa Claus, Easter Bunny, And The Tooth Fairy Have In Common?
When Its Cold Outside, Name Something You Dream About Doing On A Sunny Beach
Name An Activity Thats Often Described In Christmas Songs, Tho People Seldom Do It In Real Life.
Which Instrument Might You Be Playing Wait For Part To Come
Name A Type Of Insurance That Employers Dont Provide
Name Something Fierce Animals Have That Makes Them Threatening.
Tell Me A Type Of Character That Appears In Fairy Tales
Name A Day When Kids Get A Lot Of Candy
What Might A Shopaholic Do At The Store To Prevent Overspending
Tell Me The Worst Way For Someone To Wake You Up.
Name A Magazine Or Tabloid Headlines You Dont Always Believe
Tell Me Worst Way To Be Woken Up
Name A Place Where Youd Hid Mess Company Coming
Name Something People Do To Save Energy Around The House
At A Public Pool, What Might You Pay Extra To Rent?
Tell Me Something You Often See For Sale Classified Section
Cowboy Might Do To Catch Womans Eye
Name Something A Couple Starts Fighting About Once They Move In Together.
Name Something In Your Life You Want Bigger
Name A Game That A Barfly Would Be A Little Too Good At
Name A Type Of Tv Show Wouldnt Want Grandma On
Name Something You See In Someones Yard As A Holiday Decoration.
Tell Me Something Spies Wear To Disguise Their Identity.
Which Kind Of Pants Are Best To Wear When Youre Planning To Overeat At Thanksgiving?
Name A Small Space Where You Feel Compelled To Make Small Talk With A Stranger.
Name Something Parents Wouldnt Want To Find Under Their Childs Bed
Name Something That You Would Find Washed Up On A Beach.
Name Something Cats Can Chase All Day.
Tell Me Something You Use At Work Everyday, But Would Hate To Have To Use On Vacation
Name A Reason Why Somebody Would Be Underground
What Is Something Your Spouse Does To Prevent You From Sleeping?
Tell Me A Body Part Strong As Arnold Schwarenegger
Flavor Found In Candy And Coffee
Name A Reason Kids Give For Not Liking School
Name A Reason A Couple Might Not Want To Have Kids.
What Item That You Wear Year-Round Gets Exceptionally Gaudy During The Holidays?
Name Something That Makes Loud Sound When It Pops
Why Might A Person Drink Tea Instead Of Coffee?
Name A Childrens character whos associated with being small.
Name Something People Wear That Only Comes In One Size.
Name Something That Parents Are Always Telling Their kids To Clean.
Name A Good Place To Put Your Hands While Kissing Someone.
Name Someone Other Than Family And Friends That You Would Confide In
Which Show Might You See A Man On That Would Cause You To Cancel Your Date With Him Immediately?
Some People Name That Isnt Alive
Name A Complaint A Costumer Might Have About Their Hotel Room
Name Something That Happens To Most People, But Not To Santa Claus.
Other Than Alcohol, Name Beverage Kids Drink Less Than Adults
Name A Piece Of Information Listed On A Baseball Scoreboard.
Name Something You Would Do To See If Fruit Was Ripe
How Can You Tell The Person Youre Talking To Is Not Interested In Listening?
How Can You Tell That Somebody Just Got Back From A Camping Trip?
Name Something You Might Stop To Do When Driving Across The Country.
Name A Chore You Get Out Of If It Rains
Name Something Women Do More Of In Relationships
Name Something Skydivers Do Before Jumping Out Of The Airplane
Name A Class Offered At Gyms Now That Wasnt Offered 20 Years Ago
Tell Me A Popular Type Of Homemade Candy Served During The Holidays
Name Name Something A Kid Would Look For In A New House
Which Circus Or Sideshow Performer Had Better Have A Good Insurance Policy?
Name An Action Movie Star Does No Stunts
What Is A Bad Habit A Little Kid Would Have
Name A Sports Uniform That Many Men Look Sexy in.
Name Something A Diver Might Look For Underwater
Which Article Of Clothing Do You Suspect Every Farmer Owns?
What You Would Need To Dress As John Lennon
Name Something People Use To Wake Them Up
What Might You Do In Your Sleep That Someone Else Would Find Cute?
Name Something That Stars Do During A Divorce That You Wouldnt Do.
Name A Common Sickness That Kids Seem To Get More Often Than Adults
Name Something That Will Make A Person Age Faster.
People Find Hard To Do When There Is Loud Noise
Without Yelling, How Does A Mime Defend His Position In An Argument?
Name A Substance Of Which Animals Make Home Of
Name A Hidden Cost When Buying A Car.
Name An Item That Usually Comes With A Lot Of Packaging In The Box.
Name Something A Mom Might Make Her Daughter Wait Til Shes 12 Years Old To Do.
Name A Food Thats Associated With Romance.
Where Might A Man Take You On A First Date That Would Keep Him From Getting A Second Date?
Tell Me An Excuse Youd Use To Avoid Singing At A Karaoke Club.
What Might You See In A Personals Ad That Makes You Think It Was Placed By A Barbie Doll?
Name Something A Customer Might Do To Annoy A Waitress.
Name A Place Where You Hate To Save Seats For People
Name A Country That Is Known For Its Spicy Food
Why Would Someone Like Star Wars, But Not Star Trek?
Where Do You Think Its Appropriate For Men To Go Shirtless?
Name Something Deep Sea Divers Wear, That Youd Look Silly Wearing In The Pool.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Makes You Feel You Cant Move
Name Something Around The House That Your Family Members Use The Last Off, And Dont Replace
Name Something People Often Buy In Large Quantities At The Department Store.
Animal A Two Timing Boyfriend Gets Compared To
Name Something You Do Constantly When You Have A Cold.
Tell Me Something Kids Fight Over On A Long Car Ride
What Would You Be Surprised A Car Navigation System Advise You To Do
Name Something You Hope Your Friend Doesnt Do Housesitting
Name Something People Do To Pass Time On Long Road Trip
Name Something A Camper Does That He Wouldnt Do At Home
Name An Animal That Has A Unique Pattern To Their Fur/ Hide
Name Something Kids Do With Snow, But Their Parents Dont.
At A Rock Concert, Name Something People Do When A Song Is Over.
Name A Reason Why Your Kids Teacher Might Call From School
Name Something In Nature That You Wouldnt Want To Cuddle Up Next To
Somethng Babies Are Born With Little Or None Of
Name Something You Cant Do While Youre In The Dentists Chair.
Name Something You Can Do During A Car Trip That You Cant Do During A Plane Ride.
Name A Specific Reason Youd Get Fired From Your Job As A Zookeeper
Name A Reason You Might Skip Lunch
Besides Gamble, Name Something People Do In Las Vegas
Habit Impossible To Hide From Spouse
On a game show, name something a Host must do.
Tell Me Something Your Teenager Washes Less Often Than You
Name Something You Would Have To Be Without When Cops Pull Over
Name An Occupation Where You Could Get Away With Reading On The Job
Name A Place You Hate To See Litter.
Name Something That Gets Activated By Water
Name An Animal You Would Find In The Ocean But Not In A Pond.
Name A Way To Get Down From A Tall Building
Name A Place Where You Might End Up Dancing With Stranger
Name A Place Where You Hate To See Litter
Name A Food That Has Layers
What Song Do You Think Santa Claus Has As His Cell Phone Ringtone?
Job That Requires You To Talk All Day Long
Name An Ingredient That Cookies Would Taste Terrible If You Forgot To Add.
If You Were Married To A Pirate, What Might You Often Receive For A Gift?
What Would You Hate To Have Happen When Driving Home In A Brand New Car?
Being In Hot Water Is One Way Of Saying Youre In Trouble, Name Another.
Tell Me A Symbol Used To Represent Love
Circus Performer That Would Have Easiest Time Getting Dates
Name Something Kids Do With Bad Test Papers
Where Might A Child Be Sent If Misbehaving In School
Name A Reason Why You Might Get Introduced Many People At Once
Another Phrase To Say Stop Bothering Me
What Might You Do At A Party, That Youd Regret The Next Day?
Name Something That Would Keep You From Restaurant If It Was Bad
What Would You Prefer To Have Less Of
Name A Way tourists Get Around In A Big City.
Name An Occupation Not For Partner Too Stressful
Name A Salty Food Thats Hard To Stop Eating Once You Start.
Name A Job That A Man May Have That Makes Him A Sex Symbol Even Into Old Age
What Do Teenagers Do With Their Families At The Christmas Holiday That They Probably Would Be Embarassed To Have Known?
Name Something Given To Both Spoiled Dogs And Spoiled Children
Which Bad Work Trait Would Be Hard To Detect While Interviewing Someone?
Name Someone Famous Who Wore A Cape, But Was Not A Superhero.
Fruit That Is Hard To Break Into
Name A Specific Object On Which You Might See The Word Caution.
Name A Topic Shouldnt Bring Up In A Job Interview
Name An Activity You Turn The Lamp On For
Tell Me Something You Do When You Stay Up Late At Night.
Name A Reason Why A Person Might Prefer To Own A Dog Over A Cat.
Name A Place Where People Hope Not To Have A Baby Seated Near Them.
Name A Term That Youd Look Like A Fool For Not Knowing While Bowling
Name Something You See On A Christmas Wreath
Name A Food Parents Are Afraid To Give Their Children Due To Its Messiness
Name Something Youd Sneak Into A Movie Theater To Avoid To Keep From Buying It At The Concession Stand.
Other Than Presents, What Might You Find Under A Christmas Tree?
Name Something From Her Childhood That A Woman Might Keep Forever.
Name Something Youd Be Shocked To See Falling From The Sky
Name Something Specific You Almost Always Eat Out Of A Bag.
Name A Gift That Adults Often Give To Each Other, That Would Be Weird To Give A Kid
Name Something You Might See A Lifeguard Carrying
Button On TV Remote Husband Will Wear Out
Name Something You Avoid Doing Though You Feel Better After Its Done.
Name Something You Might Skip When You Are Sick
Name Something A Woman Should Know A Man Before Marrying Him
Name Something On The Menu That A Restaurant Might Guarantee Nobody Can Finish.
Name Someone Who Children Believe In.
Name Something A Couple Worry Less Of After Children
Tell Me An Activity You Might Do To Prove You Arent Afraid Of Heights
Name Something A Soldier Took To The First Day Of Kindergarten, That They Wouldnt Take To Their First Day Of Training.
Name Something First Time Parent Has To Do Before Baby Is Born
Name An Excuse People Give For Not Eating Healthy
Name A Place Where The Average Person Wouldnt Last A Day
Besides A Horse, Which Animal Is Used For Transportation
Name something a fast food restaurant has that a fancy restaurant would never have.
Name Something Women Wear That Becomes Uncomfortable After A While
Name A Musical Instrument Made Out Of Wood
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Make Fun Of Your Dance Moves
Name Something Specific A Person May Change In Order To Become A Celebrity
Tell Me Something Specific You Hate About Going To The Dentist
Name a Situation When Its Better To Ride A Bike Than Take A Taxi
Name An Article Of Clothing That Only A Neat-Freak Would Iron
Name Something A Boy Scout WouldnT Need To Start A Fire, But You Do
What Do People Use To Keep Their Place In A Book If They Dont Have A Bookmark?
Name Someone You Would Hate To Get Fender Bender With
If Santa Showed Up At Your Work Holiday Party, What Might Your Co-Workers Request For Christmas?
Name Something Some Women Wear Very Short
Name Something That Grows Without Being Watered.
Name A Place Where ThereS Often A Line For The WomenS Restroom
Name Something Dogs Hate Owners To Put On Them
Name Something Smoker May Do Before Going In For A Kiss
Name A Place Where Many People Go Once A Week
Tell Me An Animal You Associate With India
Name Something A Devoted Cheerleader Would Know About Her School
Name Something Las Vegas Has More Of Than The Average City
Name Something Found In Las Vegas That Youd Like To See More Of In Your Home Town
Name A Good Day Job For A Body Builder
Which Famous Painter Would You Ask To Paint Your Portrait?
Name Something You Wouldnt Leave In You Car On A Hot Day
Name A Kind Of Drink You Wouldnt Want To Have Spilled On You.
Name Something At The Playground Wish Adult Size
Name A Celebrity Who Youre Pretty Sure Has Had Plastic Surgery
Extracurricular Activity Parent Says Is Good For Child
If You Order Pasta At A Restaurant, What You Assume Come With
Which Actor Do You Think Gets The Most Love Letters?
Name An Occupation That Might Get Tired Of Wearing The Same Thing Every Day
Name Someone Who Might Ask For Your Signature
Tell Me Something Specific That A Barber Must Get Sick Of Doing
Name Something That Gets Picked Up
Why Might You Leave A Restaurant Before Even Eating There?
Which Trait Of A Good Teacher Would Also Be Important For A Good Con Man?
Name Something You Wish Your Kids Would Do Without Having To Be Told Twice.
Name Something People Do In December In Order To Get In The Holiday Spirit
What Do You Do When You Want To Sing Along With A Song, But Dont Know The Words?
What Might Kid Forget To Bring To Pool That Would Keep Him From Swimming
Name Something That Comes With A Drink Of A Fancy Cocktail
Tell Me Something You Feel Before You Buy It.
Name Something A Parent Tells Their Teen,  I Never Did At Your Age
Name A Board Game That Takes A Long Time To Play.
Name A Fruit That You Squeeze To See If Its Ripe.
Before A Part-Time Job, Name A Way That Kids Earn Money.
Name A Print Youd Find On A Womans Dress, But Not On A Countrys Flag.
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Not Ride Their Bike To Work
Name Something About Wife Makes You Think Shes A Witch
Name A Professional You May Come In Contact With, But Should Never Flirt With.
Instead Of Courage Or A Brain, What Quality Would You Ask The Wizard Of Oz For?
If An Alien Landed At Christmas Time, Name A Christmas Tradition That Would Be Hard To Explain.
Name A City Were You Would Expect To Find Beautiful People
What Could Your Computer Run Without, But It Would Be A Bummer Not To Have?
In One Word, Whats The Best Thing About Being Married?
What Do You Check Before Going To Bed?
Name Something Cinderella Would Have A Hard Time Doing In Her Glass Slippers.
Name Something People Supposedly Do Differently Than Animals
On His 18th Birthday, What Would A Mom Hate To Hear Her Son Say? Mom, Im_____
Name A Profession That Would Help You Be Good At Solving Crossword Puzzles.
Name Something Many People Spend A Lot Of Money On, Just To Impress Others.
Name Something That A Las Vegas Entertainers Outfit Would Have Sewn On
Name A Country Whose Food You Know Better Than Its Language
Name A Type Of Restaurant Might Not Be Able To Pronounce Anything On Menu
Tell Me A Food That People Often Slurp While Eating
What Is The Best Gift For Your Boss To Give You Around The Holidays?
Unlike Age Or Weight, Name A Number That Youd Be Surprised For Someone To Offer Before A Blind Date.
Name Something In The House That You Shouldnt Leave On When You Go Out.
Name A Language Spoken In Europe.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Children Are Always Losing
Other Than A Job Name Something For Which You Fill Out An Application.
Name Name Something You Bring With You Everywhere
What Might A Hitchhiker Take With Him, In Order To Seem Less Dangerous?
Name A Reason Why You Dont Answer The Phone When Youre Home.
Name A Reason Why A Child Might Not Want Long Hair
Place You Dont Like To Set Foot If On A Diet
Name Something People Should Never Leave House Without
Name Something People Add To Their Tea.
Name A Reason Youd Stay Inside On A Saturday.
Tell Me Something You Might Lie To A Friend About.
Name Something a Germ-O-Phobe Would Refuse To Do On A Date
Word For Handsome Man You Would Feel Funny Saying
Name Something Really Tall Person Has To Think Twice Before Buying
If You Had To Be Locked Inside A Building For A Year, Which Place Would You Want It To Be?
Name A Place Where Itd Be Smart For A Lawyer To Advertise.
Name Something Offered To First Class Airline Passesngers
Name Something Thats Sticky
Give A Nickname For A Spouse That Is Also A Dessert
Name Something That People Believe Will Tell You A Lot About A Person
Name A Piece Of Information Youd Include In Personals Ad
Where Do You Hear Christmas Songs Throughout December?
Name A Reason Why You Might Not Get A Good NightS Sleep While Staying At Someone ElseS House
Name Something Babysitter Hopes Kids Will Be Doing
What Complaints Do People Make About The Christmas Holiday?
Name A Place That Has Internet Now But Not Long Ago
Other Than Christmas, Name A Word Thats In Almost Every Christmas Song
Name Something A Guy Might Do When Hes With His Girlfriend That His Buddies Might Tease Him About.
We Asked 100 Women: If Youre Underdressed For A Party, What Can You Put On Quickly To Look Dressed Up?
Name A One Word Term People Use Playing Cards
Which Musical Instrument Least Expect In A Country Music Band
Name An Article Of Clothing Women Think Men Look Handsome
If There Were No Clean Plates, What Might You Eat Over?
Name A Body Part That Swells On A Pregnant Woman
Name The Important Firsts That People Record About A Baby.
Other Thank Family And Friends, Name A Person You Give A Gift Or Tip To During The Holidays
Name Something You Eat That Can Be Described As Juicy.
Name a Place Where Youd Least Expect to See a Superhero.
If You Lived With A Bodybuilder, Name A Word Youd Often Hear Around The House
Other Than Clothes, Name Something A Kid Might Outgrow
Name A Word For Someone Who Never Does Anything Wrong
Name A Reason Someone Might Chop Up His Credit Card
What Do Soap Opera Characters And Wealthy People Have In Common?
Name A Time When A Wife Often Chooses Her Husbands Clothes For Him.
Christmas Gift You Would Have Hard Time Wrapping
Name Something Many People Would Be Sacred To Do Alone At Night
Name Something You Do Same Time Every Day
When Sitting Next To Someone She Likes, Name Something A Woman Does To Flirt.
Name A Type Of Lawn Ornament
Which Part Of Your Morning Routine Wont Leave Home Without Doing
Name something you might be scared of while camping.
Which Activity Can A Mother Do With Daughter Not With Sons
Two-Word Phrase That Starts With Secret
Why Might You Fly Home For The Holidays, Instead Of Driving?
Name Something You Wouldnt Want Your Kid Bringing Home From School.
What Do A Lot Of People Eat On Christmas
Name Something In Your House That Has To Be Changed From Time To Time.
Which Imagninary Holiday Character Would You Least Like To Have On Your Relay Race Team?
Name A Specific Reason Co-Worker Drinks After Work
Before 21, A Place A Young Person Could Hang On Friday Night
Name Something Children Often Catch
Other Than Christmas, Name An Occasion For Which People Decorate Their Houses.
Name A Word That Means Stop.
Name Something A Kid Might Do To Get Out Of Participating In Gym Class
Name Someone Who Make Money Off Of Giving Advice
Name Something Very Old That You Find At Many Museums.
Name A Game Adults Play At A BBQ Party
Name The High School Subject You Use Least Often Today
Name A Weather Condition You Hate To Drive In
Name Something Most Families Talk About When They Get Together.
Name A Job You Might Have If You Worked At Disneyworld.
Name A Feature Of Most Parade That Scare Children
Best Food To Go Out For On Friday Night
Name An Occupation In Which You Might Be In A New City Every Night
Name Something Specific England People Eat
Why Might A Waiter Say He Had Bad Day?
What Should A Man Dress As If He Wants To Get A Lot Of Dates On Halloween?
Name A Reason Why You Might Skip Lunch.
Name A Place Where People Get New Recipes
Name A Big Expense That Some Parents Plan For Years In Advance.
Name Something Specific A Waiter Would Do To Get Good Tips
Name A Job In Which Youd Stand In One Place All Day
Name A Reason You May Get A Tattoo Removed.
Name A Way You Know Your Teacher Is Having A Bad Day.
Name Something About Grandmas Looks That Could Be Fake
Name Something On Your Body That You Want To Be Shiny.
Name Someone In A Mans Life Who YouD Want To Meet Before Marrying Him
Name Something People Do Before Bed That Makes It Hard To Sleep.
Name An Expense That Goes Up In The Month Of December
Name Something A Bad Golfer Often Runs Out Of
Name Something You Can Get In Extra Large
What Do New Parents Wish Baby Learn Quickly
Name Something You Shouldnt Do After Getting A Manicure
Name A Slow-Moving Vehicle That You Hate To Get Stuck Behind
Name Something Specific That Women Wear That Hurts
Name A Reason You Might Be Driving More Cautiously Than Normal.
Something Teenagers Do That Makes Parents Angry
Name Something You Are Smarter About Now Than When You Were A Teenager
If Money Isnt An Object, Who Do People Hire To Help Make Their Life Easier?
Name Something People Are Often Chased By In Movies
Name A Food Or Drink That You Smell Outside A Restaurant In The Morning
If You Lived In Soap Opera Land
Why Might You Regret Picking Up A Lost Dog?
Name A Way To Avoid Spending A Lot On Christmas Gifts
Name An Appliance You Have Only One Of.
For What Occasion Did Your Partner Last Look Stunning?
What Might You Find Under Couch Cushion?
Name A Celebrity Whos So Handsome He Could Make A Santa Suit Look Sexy.
Name Something Dog Owner Wish Never Did
Name Something Specific About Santa That Causes Children To Be Afraid Of Him At The Mall.
Name A Reason Why Another Driver May Flash Their Headlights At You.
Which Part Of Holiday Preparation Do You Always Put Off Til The Last Minute?
If Your Company Was Saving Money, Name Something That Might Not Be At The Holiday Party.
When Shes Run Out Of Money, What Might A Gambler Put On The Table?
Name Something You Might Do With Your Days Off Around Christmas?
What Might Hypnotist Do To Prove You Are Hypnotized
We Asked 100 Women: Where Do You Wish Your Partner Was More Willing To Go With You?
What Would You Hear On The Radio That Would Make You Turn The Station?
Name A Person In Your Life Dislike Partner
Name A Reason Why Its Hard To Talk To An Attractive Person
Which Fears, Adult/ Childish Men Pretend Not To Do
Activity Nursing Home Residents Look Forward To
What Item Might A Person Who Cant Cook Be Asked To Bring To Thanksgiving?
Name Something You Dont Want The Person Next To You To Do While Youre Eating.
Name A Way That A Mans Voice Might Change When Talking To His Love Interest.
Other Than Academic Why Might A Teen Choose A Certain College?
We Asked 100 Women: Name Something You Like To See A man Do Because It Expresses His gentle Side.
Name Something Thats Hard To Cook Well Without Burning
Name Something A Baby Does That Would Be Considered Flirting If An Adult Did It
Name Something Form Home you Might Miss On Vacation.
If Your Boss Finds You Sleeping On The Job, What Excuse Might You Give For Having Your Closed Eyes?
What Can You Consult When Lost
Name Something You Use At Least 20 Times A Day
Name Something You Might Pay Someone To Do While Youre Away On Vacation
Name A Milestone For Most Teenagers
Where Would You Look First If Your Child Was Lost In The Department Store?
Name Something You Always Have With You So You Dont Get Lost
Other Than Himself, Name Something A Man Cleans Before A Big Date (More Specific Than House).
Name A Gift That Most Women Would Be Thrilled To Get For Christmas
Name Something People Do While Riding A Rollercoaster
What Might A Woman Brag That Her Husband Is Better At Than Most?
Name Something Sold In Checkout Lines
Name A Place Thats Meant For Kids, But Adults Love It Too
Name Something That You Would Be Willing To Pay Twice As Much For At A Convenience Store Because You Need It Quickly.
When Visiting Hometown, Place You Would Definately Visit
Name A Section Listed On Most Restaurant Menus
Which Of Your Family Members Is Hardest To Shop For Around The Holidays?
If Your Work Wanted People To Stick Around The Office More, What Should They Bring In?
Name A Food That Dogs Love Just As Much As Humans Do.(Meat Is Not An Answer, Be More Specific)
Name Something People Do At The Dinner Table, Even Though Its Considered Bad Manners
Name A Johnny Depp Movie Everyone Has Seen
Name Something You Do At Work, Although You Know Youre Not Supposed To
Name Something You Would See On Jerry Springer, But Not On Oprah
Tell Me Something People Do With Horses, But No Other Farm Animals.
What Might A Child Bring To Summer Camp, In Case They Get Homesick
Name Something A Woman Might Take Home From Her Best Friends Wedding
If There Was A Gourmet Cafe For Dogs, Which Coffee Flavors Would Likely Be On The Menu?
Name Something You Can Test In Store Before Buying
What Might A Kid Get In Trouble For Writing On?
Tell Me Something You Would Never Borrow From Your Close Friend.
Who Or What Might You Give A Nickname To?
Name Something That Someone Who Gets Dates Has, That Someone Who Doesnt Get Dates Doesnt Have.
Name A Type Of TV Commercial Thats Usually Targeted At Men.
Name Key On Computer That Has Word On It
Name Something The Sign Outside A Hotel Might Tell You
Whats The First Thing A Husband Does When He Finds Out His Wife is Pregnant?
Tell Me A Type Of Work Vehicle, Thats Often Seen As A childrens Toy
Way To Save Money On Groceries
Name A Street Name For Money
Name A Breed Of Dog That Might Be Used As A Guard Dog
Name A Color That Cars Seldom Come In
Name A Famous Building Thats Big Enough To House A Dinosaur.
Name Something You Know About The Easter Bunny
What Would Compel A Consumer Of A Food Product To Call Costumer Service?
Name Something that Might Come Out Of Your Nose When You Laugh.
Name Something Thats Hard To Do On A Particularly Hot Summer Day.
Name A Clothing Trend From The 1980S That Has Come Back In Style
Name A US City That Probably Has A Lot Of Single People
Where Might A Cheapskate Take You On A First Date?
Name Something Of Her Moms A Kid Might Wear
Complaint Someone Might Have About Paper Boy
Name Something Specific A Man Often Compliments A Woman On When Trying To Pick Her Up.
What Would You Need If You Wanted To Dress A Rocky Balboa For Halloween?
What Did You Do As A Baby That Youre Glad You Dont Do I Public Anymore?
Name A Recreational Activity Traditionally Done In Hot Weather
Name A Type Of Hat That You Dont See Many People Wear In Real Life
Name An Occasion For Which People Return To Their Hometown
Name Something People Associtae With The 1960S
Name Something Specific Thats Out Of Proportion In A Childs Drawing
Name Something That YouD Find More Commonly In France Than In The Us
Tell Me Something That Would Get You Thrown Out Of Most Bars
Name A Game That Would Be Inappropriate At A Company Party
Name Something Kids Are Taught About Abe Lincoln
Name Something You Would Allow The House Sitter To Use While At Your Place
Name Something You Might Do If You Had A Romantic Day With Partner
Circus Animal You Would Hate To Be Trainer For
Name Something You Might Receive In A Gift Basket
Name A Place People Might Go For Peace And Quiet.
Name A Sport That Might Be Played At A Family Reunion.
Tell Me A Place In The House Where A Nosey House Guest Might Snoop.
Name Something People Associate With The Swiss
Name A Place Where Many People Would Feel Uncomfortable Going Without A Date.
Name An Activity That Could Be Rained Out
Name A Profession That Requires Really Good Balance
Name A Hobby Whose Participants Are Also Called -Geeks
Name Something People Wear That Has Their Company Logo On
What Might You Buy With Fav Sports Team Logo On It
Where Do You Get You Christmas Tree From Every Year?
What Accent Might An American Pretend To Have In Order To Sound Sexier
Name A Reason Why A Kid Might Not Trick-Or-Treat
Name Something A Pro Athlete Might Wear Thats Lucky
Name A Profession Youd Shoot For If You Wanted To Be Famous
We Asked 100 Men: What Excuse Might You Make Up To Start A Conversation With An Attractive Stranger At A Bar?
Tell Me An Occupation Where You Wouldnt Wear High Heels
Name A Reason The Bride And The Groom Might Leave The Reception Early
Where Does A Woman Try To Avoid Leaving Lipstick Marks?
Name A Piece Of Home Decor That Sometimes Comes With Wild Patterns
Name Something For Which You Get A Warranty.
Name Something In A Regular House That Might Be Missing In A Batchelor Pad.
Name Something Thats Currently Legal, That People Should Be Banned From Doing While Driving
What Do People Eat In The Hospital
Name A Smell You Associate With Fall
Name Something Specific That Causes You Honk Car Horn
Which Physical Characteristics Would Tell You Someone Is An Alien?
Name A Fruit That You Can Buy Dried
Name A Place Where A Child Might Get Separated From Her Parents.
During Your Morning Routine, Name Something Youd Hate To Discover Wasnt Working.
Name Something In Cars Now That You Cant Believe People Once Went Without.
Name Something Look For Rental Car Vs Regular Car
Name A Place Where You Find Yourself Watching The Clock.
Besides Family Feud, Name A Tv Show With Family In Its Title
Name Something That Causes People To Change Seats At The Movies
Name A Job In Which Youd Have An Easy Time Getting Dates
Name A Comedian That Gets On Peoples Nerves
We Asked 100 Singles: Describe Last Date With Movie Genre
Name A Job A Robot Not Entertaining Enough
During Conversation You Might Fake
Name A Decision That People Dont Make Lightly.
Married People Only: How Many Guests Did You Invite To Your Wedding? Numeric Only Please.
If You Got Stuck In The Desert, What Would You Want To Have With You?
Tell Me The Age That Most People Want To Live Until
Name The Age At Which A Man May Get Thick Around The Middle.
How Many Hours Of Sleep Does The Average Person Need In Order To Wake Up Refreshed?
How Old Were You When You Babysat For The First Time?
At What Age Might A Man Have Midlifecrisis?
Name Something That People Hope Will Last Forever
How Late A Kid Might Stay Up At Sleepover
We Asked 100 Moms How Much Are You Like Your Mom. Scale 1-10.
We Asked 100 Moms: On A Scale From 1-10, How Much Have You Become Like Your Own Mom With Age?
Besides Their Kids, Name Something That Might Keep New Parents Awake At Night.
Who Was On The Phone The Last Time You Said, Dont Call Here Anymore?
Name A Situation Where You Might Hang Up On An Answering Machine, For Fear Of Saying Something Dumb.
Name Something That You Dont Want Your Dog To Lick (More Specific Than You).
Name Something A Kid Might Get To Do When Sleeping Over At A Friends House That He Doesnt Do At Home
Name Something You Hate To See Ahead Of You While Riding A Roller Coaster?
Name Something Thats Used To Pave A Driveway
Name A Place Where You Often End Up Overeating
Name A Phrase That A Cool Guy Might Use To Say Hello
Name Something You Associate With Betty White.
Name A Phone Company That Offers Low Long Distance Rates
Name Something A Romantic Man Would Hate For The Woman Hes Serenading To Do While Hes Singing
Name Something Donald Duck Does That Most Ducks Dont
Name A Country With A Very Long Name
Name Someone Who Could Show Up In A Will That Would Be A Big Surprise To The Deceaseds Family.
Name Something Every Fairy Tale Needs
Name A Reason A Policeman Might Say He Had A Bad Day On The Job.
Name A Specific Button On A Clock Radio
Name Something Youd Put On A Poodle, But Not A Pitbull
Name Something You Rent
Name Something People Often Leave In Their House With A Free Sign On It?
Name Something Youd Hate To Have Happen While House-Sitting
Name Something You Use From The Kitchen When Youre Working In The Garage.
Whats The Best thing To Have On The Radio While On Your Morning Commute?
Name A Phrase Youd Say To Your Partner That Starts With You Drive Me __.
Tell Me A Food That Goes From Your Freezer To Your Toaster.
Name Something About The Brady Bunch That Is Different From Most Families.
Other Than Fight, What Does A Pro Wrestler Do That A Kid Would Get In Trouble For Copying?
Name Something College Freshmen Have To Start Sharing When They Live In The Dorms.
Name The Worst Thing About Going To The Drive-In.
Name Something A Mansion Has That Requires Hired Help To Maintain.
Name Something People Do That Ticks Off Animal Activists
If You Wanted To Marry A Cowboy Where Would You Start Hanging Out?
Name A Person In Your Life That Youd Be Mortified To Call By The Wrong Name.
Name Something That Has To Be Taken Out Every Once In A While
Name A Type Of Repairman You Might Call To Your House In An Emergency.
During A Long Distance Bus Trip, Name Something Youd Be Disappointed To Learn That The Bus Didnt Have
Name Something Youd Need If You Were Going To Impersonate Mickey Mouse
Tell Me Something A Person Might Ask Their Partner To Quit.
Name A Place Where You Hear People Being Paged Over A Loudspeaker
Name Something You Associate With Wall Street
Name A Type Of Oil People Never Put On Food.
Name Something You Might Adjust When You Get Into A Rental Car.
Name Something On A Baby That Often Looks Big Compared To The Rest Of Their Body.
If A Child Were Raised By Squirrels Name Something Hed Be Good At.
Name A Type Of Photo That Most People Dont Smile In.
Name A Bad Job For Someone Who Always Tells The Truth.
Name Something A Teacher Might Make Students Do During An Emergency Drill.
Name Something A Teenager Might Try To Get Away With When Their Parents Are Out Of Town.
Name A Cartoon Character Whose Head You Might Find At The Top Of A Pez Dispenser.
In A Romantic Movie, What Event Often Happens At The Movies Finale?
Name Something About Love That Some People Believe In And Others Dont.
Name A Talent That Cant Be Learned, But That You Must Be Born With
Name Something At A Playground That Youd Never Go On While Queasy.
Name The Worst Kind Of Footwear To Run A Marathon In.
Name A Fact That Most Residents Dont Know About Their Own State
Name Places Where You Might See Santa
Tell Me Something Your Body Cant Live Without.
Name Something People Do On Spring Break, But Not On An Ordinary Vacation.
What Would A Beauty-Obsessed Person Take Longer To Do?
Name Something A New Parent Tries To Do While The Baby Is Napping.
For What Specific Reason Might You Avoid Mistletoe?
Name Something Teens Should Have To Promise Never To Do Before Getting A Cell Phone.
Name A Number Associated With A Used Car That Youd Want To Know Before Buying It
When Youre Stuck In A Rut, Name An Activity That Can Pull You Out
Name Something A Hitchhiker Might Do To Get Noticed.
Name Something A Good Neighborhood Kid Might Do For His Elderly Neighbor
Name Something Teens Think They Understand Long Before They Really Do.
What Happens To Your Body That Lets You Know Youre Getting Old?
Name A Sound That Gives You A Headache If You Hear It For Too Long.
Tell Me A Reason Youd Hate To Run Into Your Boss At The Beach.
Without Seeing Them Steal, Name Something That Youd See A Person Do To Make You Suspicious That Theyre Shoplifting.
What Kind Of Athlete Would Have An Unfair Advantage In A Roller Derby?
Name An Event Many People Dont Like To Attend Without A Date
At A Restaurant, What Do You Do If Your Meal Doesnt Taste Very Good.
If You Wanted To Have Conversation With Someone, Name A Noisy Place Youd Avoid.
Name Something That Happens To People When Theyre Experiencing An Allergic Reaction.
Name A Red Colored Frozen Yogurt Topping.
Name Something A Parent Might Do To Help Their Baby Fall Asleep.
Name A Subject In School That Would Have Helped Santa Do His Job?
Name A Reason A Person Might Prefer To Walk On A Treadmill Instead Of Taking A Walk Outside.
If You Cant Find Your Eye Glasses, Where Should You Look?
Name Something You Do For Your Child, And Your Child Does For Her Imaginary Friend.
Give Me Another Name That Kids Use For Father
Name Something People Imagine Theyd See On Every Street In Hollywood
Other Than Nice Houses, Name A Sign That Youre In A Well-To-Do Neighborhood.
If Someone Turned You Upside Down, Name Something That Would Fall Out Of Your Pockets.
Name Something You Might Find Out About A City That Would Make You Change Your Plans To Visit.
Name Something People Cover When It Rains
Name Something A Grown Child May Leave In Storage At His Parents House
Name Something That You Shouldnt Have To Do On Your Birthday.
Name Something Youd Need In Order To Play A Game Of Basketball
Name A Reason Why A Teen Might Swear Off Love.
Name The Most Romantic Place To Go On A First Date.
Name A Family Tradition People Might Have For Winter Holidays.
Name Something Your Husband Would Like To Get Rid Of.
We Asked 100 Wives: Name Something Specific You Wish Your Husband Would Be More Helpful With Around The House
Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Want Metallica As Your Wedding Band
Name Something Youd Love To Wake Up To The Smell Of. (More Specific Than Food.)
In The Office, Name Something That People Borrow But Almost Never Return?
Name A Celebrity Who Youd Like To Be BFFs With Just So You Could Get The Scoop On Her Personal Life.
Name A Fruit Juice Thats Very Bitter.
If James Bond Were A Real Man, Name Something That Probably Would Have Happened To Him By Now.
Name Something You Associate With Jerry Lewis.
When Shopping, Name A Way You Can Tell If Someone Is A Sales Clerk
Name Something You Might Do To Keep Your House Cool On A Hot Day
How Could You Tell That Someones ID Is Fake?
Name A Complaint A Person Might Have About Their Cable TV Company.
Name A Term That Describes Someone Who Comes In At First Place
Name A Place In The World Where People Might Go To Get Married
We Asked 100 Women To Fill In The Blank: Id Notice Right Away If _____ Was Missing From My Purse.
When Meeting A Blind Date, Name An Accessory You Might Wear So They Know Its You.
Name A Specific Chore Kids Do In Order To Get An Allowance.
Name A Party Game That Youd Be Surprised To Find At An Adults Birthday.
Name Something A Parent Might Scold A Child For Interrupting
What Must A Town Have To Make It A Popular Winter Destination?
If You Were Staying Overnight At A Friends And Forgot Your Toothbrush, Name Something You Might Do.
Name A Place Where You Might See A Bear.
Name Something You Might See Pictured On A Postcard From Alaska.
Name Something You Would Not Want To Buy At A Dollar Store.
Tell Me A Nickname For A Woman Named Margaret.
Name A Cartoon Character That Can Fly
Name A Famous Person Whose Last Name Is Allen
Name A Place Where You Need An Appointment.
Name Something That Dogs Are Always Able To Do That People Can Only Do On A Camping Trip.
In Todays World, Name Something That Helps People Stay Forever Young.
Tell Me Something A Dog Cant Stand.
Name A Skill That Parents Hope Their Children Have By The Time They Buy A Home.
Name Someone, Real Or Fictional, Whose Name Starts With Little
Name Something A Cat In A Movie Can Do That A Real-Life Cat Can
Name A Famous Pirate
Name Something People Do More Of When Theyre Tired
Name Something You Tell Someone Is Going To Hurt You More Than Them.
Name Something You Started Seeing Less Of Since Cell Phones Became Popular
Tell Me Something You Might Buy For The Prom
Name A City Associated With Organized Crime
Name A Popular Flavor Of Sherbet.
Past Or Present, Name A TV Judge.
Name Something People Are Often Trying To Get Out Of Doing.
Name Something Parents Should Do To Be Sure That Their Kids Have A Safe Halloween.
Name An Organ In The Body That Many People Should Take Better Care Of
Name Something That People Could Watch For Hours.
Name A Kind Of beam You Wouldnt Want To Balance On.
Name An Athlete Whos Appeared On A Wheaties Box.
Tell Me A Game Show Thats Been Around Forever.
We Asked 100 Husbands: Name Something Your Wife Spends More Money On Than You Do.
Name Something You Might Find An Olive In.
Name Something About Alaska That Non-Residents Might Romanticize
Name Something A Carjacker Would Hate To Discover About The Car He Stole
Name Something Specific A Rental Car Company Checks When You Return Your Car.
Name Something Embarrassing That You Might Do While Listening To Headphones.
If You Were Able To See The Future, Name A Way That Youd Be Able To Make A Lot Of Money.
Name A Book Where The Main Hero Is A Kid.
Name An Announcement That Youd Hate For Your Boss To Overhear You Making
Tell Me An Excuse That A Tough Guy Might Give If He Were Caught Watching A Soap Opera
What Kind Of Food Should Not Be Served At A Wedding?
Name An Occupation Youd Be Tempted To Enter If You Liked To Snoop
If Einstein Failed A Subject In School, What Might It Have Been?
Name A Sport That You Cant Play Without A Team
Name Another Word For A Bar That A Cowboy Might Use
Name The Worst Thing To Criticize Your Mother-In-Law For
Name Something You Do While Birdwatching That You Might Also Do While Hunting
Name An Activity For Which You Might Use Walkie Talkies.
How Can You Tell The Jewelry Your Partner Gives You Is Made Of Fake Gold?
What Might You Want To Bring With You, When Babysitting An Infant Who Cries A Lot?
At The End Of The Day, Name Something Indiana Jones Might Put Away In His Closet.
Name A Part Of A Dolls Body That Might Be Movable
Name Something Thats More Likely To Happen To You If Youre Hanging Out At A Bar.
Name A Color Baby Clothes Comes in.
Name A Breakfast Item That You Order, But Can Never Finish
What Do You Do When Someone Tells A Joke Thats Not Actually Funny?
Name Something Bad That Might Happen TO A Magicians Assistant During A Performance.
Name An Event That Men Are Usually Not Invited To
Name A Dessert That Can Only Be Eaten With A Spoon.Name Something A Man Might Still Do For Woman When They Go Out On A Date
Name Something People Often Lose
Besides Math, Name The Most Difficult Subject In School
Name Something You Do To Prepare For Out-Of-Town Visitors.
Tell Me The First Big Item You Buy When Moving To A New House.
Name Something That Has Pineapple In It.
Name Something You Would Be Surprised To Find In A Bachelors Bathroom
Name Something That People Normally Dont Pay Cash For.
Name A Body Part That Often Gets Broken
Tell Me Something You Might Find In A Bankrobbers Suitcase.
Name Something Our Ancient Ancestors Might Have Danced To Celebrate.
Name The Hardest Position To Play On A Baseball Team
Name A Big Event That Happens To TV Characters In Order To Up Ratings.
Name A Day Of The Year When Most People Call Home.
Name Something People Know More About If They Read The Tabloids In The Checkout Line.
What Would You Have To Learn To Do Before Starring In A John Wayne Movie?
Name Something That Can Be Stuffed.
Name Something People Try To Squeeze Into (More Specific Than Clothes).
Which Part Of A Newspaper Would A Teenager Likely Read First?
Name Something Its Probably Much Harder To Do In Outer Space Than It Is On Earth.
If You Were Dating A Real Knight In Shining Armor, Name Something Youd Have Difficulty Doing Together.
Name An Actor Who Uses Or Used Their Middle Initial.
Name A Game You Need Dice To Play.
Tell Me Something That Americans Want To Do While Visiting France.
Name Something A Driver Might Do That Would Cause You To Write Down His Cars License Number.
What Might A Chef Do While Cooking, That Would Ruin The Whole Dish?
Name Something A Game Show Host Has To Do, Even On A Day When He Doesnt Feel Like It.
Name Something People Go To A Professional To Have Cleaned.
Name Something You Never Leave Unlocked. (More Specific Than Door.)
Name A Topic That People Might Whisper About.
Name A Person Or Character Who Is Referred To As Lady.
Name Something From School That A Kid Might Try To Hide From Their Parents.
If Dog Owners Demanded Fido Get A Job, What Job Might He Be Good At?
Name A Piece Of Information That You Write Down When Youre On Your Way To Meet Your Blind Date.
Name Something You Do When Your Computer Freezes Up.
Past Or Present, Name A Famous Magician
Which Endearment Would Many Women Be Annoyed To Hear A Stranger Call Them By?
Name Something That May Include A Meal In The Ticket Price.
If A Groom Was Extremely Nervous About Getting Married, What Might He Do At The Alter?
What Signs Of Being A Bad Boy Might A Woman Be Attracted To?
Even Though Its A Beautiful Place To Visit, Name A Reason Why You Might Not Want To Live In Hawaii
Name A Halloween Costume That Is A Complete Misrepresentation Of The Occupation It Portrays.
Name Something People Wore More Of In The 1800s Than They Do Today
Name The Best Kind Of Music To Dance To With Someone You Want To Be Close To
Name A Breed Of Dog That Would Never Scare Away A Burglar.
Name A Responsibility That Most Married Couples Share
If You Could Have Just One Chore That Someone Else Would Always Do For You, What Would It Be? (More Specific Than Clean.)
Tell Me A Place In The Newspaper Where You Wouldnt Want To See Your Name.
Name Something Women Talk About During A Girls Night Out.
Name Something That Causes A Person To Laugh.
What Event Might Someone Attend Without Their Spouse That Would Make You Think They Broke Up?
Name Something That Every Family Does Immediately When They Win Family Feud
Name Something On A Kids Playground That Adults Could Use As Exercise Equipment.
If Santa Claus Had To Enter The Witness Protection Program, Name Something He Might Do To Disguise His Appearance.
Name Someone Specific In A Bank Robbers Life That he Doesnt Want To Find Out About His Illegal Activity
Name A Complaint People Might Have About Their Teeth
Name Something In Their Home That An Extremely Organized Person Might Alphabetize.
Name A Type Of Reservation That Often Gets Lost
Name A Game Teenagers Play At Parties
Name Something Everybody Knows About Turkeys.
Name Something You Lie To Your Boss About.
Name A Coffee Drink People Order While Theyre Out, But Cant Make At Home
Name Something That People Today Probably Wash More Than They Need To.
If A Health-Nut Ordered A Sandwich, What Ingredient Might They Leave Off?
Name Something People Do To Their Food That Makes It Unhealthy
Name Something Some People Jump Out Of
Name Something You Might Wash Everyday
Name Something People Catch.
Name Something A Person Might Be Told To Hang Up.
With Eyes Closed, Name Something About A Mans Mouth That A Woman Kissing Him Could Use To Identify Him.
Name Something A Man Does To Groom Himself
Name Something You Try To Prevent From Getting Flat.
Name Something In Your Garage That Might Be Mistaken For A Snake In The Dark.
Name A Reason Why You Might Use Candles.
Name Someone, Past Or Present, Who Is Known For Hosting A Childrens Television Program
Tell Me Which Of The 7 Dwarfs Would Have The Hardest Time Finding A Date.
Name Something A Dog Owner Might Pay Someone To Do To Their Dog?
Name A Place Where Hot Dogs Are Often Served.
Name A Food New York Is Famous For.
Past Or Present, Name A U.S. President Who You Wouldnt Mind Having A Beer With.
With Regard To Dating, Name Something Moms Warn Their Sons To Avoid
Name The Softest Thing In A Babys Room.
In Which Profession Would It Be Easiest To Get Away With Wearing Sweat Pants?
Name A Book That Students Keep On Hand For Reference.
Name A Reason You Might Suspect That Your Roommate Is Turning Into A Vampire.
If You Run Into A Bear In The Woods, Name Something You Should Not Do.
What Do You Do When Someone Says Hi, But Youre Sure Youve Never Met Them?
Why Might A Person Only Be Allowed A Limited Number Of Phone Calls?
Name Something A Friend Should Never Ask About, No Matter How Well They Know You
Name A Place Where You Hate To Get Stuck
How Might A Snowman Lose Some Of Its Accessories?
What Information About A Woman Might A Man Keep In His Little Black Book?
Tell Me Something About A Couple That Would Lead You To Believe They Spend Too Much Time Together.
Name A Cartoon Movie That Features Animals As The Main Characters.
Name A Letter Of The Alphabet That Is Also A Vitamin?
Name A Famous Aaron? (Erin?)
If You Saw Your Love Interest Unexpectedly, Name A Specific Reason Youd Avoid Them.
How Many Times Does The Average Person Let A Phone Ring Before Answering It? (Numeric Only)
We Asked 100 Wives: What Percent Of The Housework Does Your Husband Do?
Tell Me A Special Day That You Wish Lasted Longer Than 24 Hours
When Scuba Diving, Name Something You Have To Wear To Make Yourself More Like A Fish.
Name A High School Subject Kids Might Take To Get An Easy A.
Other Than Sitting And Watching, Name Something People Do In Front Of The TV.
Name Something Children Might Get Rewarded For
Tell Me Something That Makes Some Bugs More Annoying Than Others
Name A Reason That A Child Might Get Taken Out For Ice Cream (More Specific Than Good).
Name Something The Stars Eat That You Probably Would Not Find In Middle America.
Although Some Consider It Paradise, Name A Downside To Living In Hawaii
Name A Reason A Mailman Might Have A Bad Day On His Route
Name Something You Do Right Before Your Picture Is Taken
Name Something You Can Buy In A Cordless Version
Name A Reason You Would Go To Grandmas House For Dinner Instead Of A Restaurant.
What Are Some Reasons That A Racecar Driver Might Lose A Race?
Name A Famous Roger
Name Something Youd Have To Get Used To If You Were A Zoo Animal
Name Something That A Person Might Consume Every Morning In Order To Stay Healthy.
If Youre Going To Do Your Own Taxes, Name Something You Probably Need
Name Something Gentlemen Used To Do For Ladies That They No Longer Bother With.
Name Something Youd Be Surprised To Find That A Frat Party Had None Of
What Would The Chatterbox Next To You Keep You From Doing On An Airplane?
Name Some Things That Annoy You In Public Places Such As Restaurants
Name A Part Of You That Looks Different When Youre Sick
Name An Article Of Clothing That Is Usually Only Worn By Men
Name A Street That Youll Find In Almost Every City In America
Tell Me Someplace People Might Go Right After Work On Friday
Name A Place Where A Man Might Be A Regular Customer.
Name Someone Who Youd Hate To Accidentally Forward A Personal Email To
Name Something A Man Might Do All Day Long If His Wife Let Him
Name A Mood-Setter In Your Home That You Pay More Attention To If You Are Trying To Impress A Date.
Name Something That A Very Tall Person Might Hit Their Head On In An Unfamiliar House.
Name A Fact About A New Boyfriend That A Woman Might Wait To Tell Her Parents.
Name A Restaurant Job That A Stay-At-Home Parent Does For Free All The Time
Name Something Most People Start To Get By The Age Of 35
Real Or Fictional, Name A Famous Outlaw
Name Someone Specific In Your Life Who Has Tried To Set You Up On A Blind Date.
Name Something Youd Take Camping But Be Arrested For If You Brought It To A Bank.
Tell Me The Age Of A Woman That Is Too Young To Be Dating A 50 Year Old Man
Name Something Found In The Garden Of Eden
Name Something In Your House That You Might Hear In The Middle Of the Night And Mistake For A Burglar.
Name A Food Or Drink That Makes A Sound The First Time Its Container Is Opened.
Name Something You Do To Let A Friend Know She Has Food On Her Face.
In A Conversation With The Worlds Most Boring Person, Name A Subject That Would Surely Come Up.
Name A Thanksgiving Food That Often Comes From A Box Or Can.
Name Something The Average Person Might Have To Do If They Wanted To Be A Sumo Wrestler.
If Your Purse Was Stolen, Tell Me The One Thing In It That Would Be Hardest To Replace.
Name A Reason Why A Kid Might Not Wear His Ordinary Clothes To School.
Name Something You Might Replace If You Are Remodeling Your Bathroom
Name Something People Donate To Charity During The Holidays
What Are 2 Brothers Most Likely To Fight Over?
Name Something People Do To Lower Their Temperature When They Have A Fever
Name Something Thats Conducted
Name something that the human body has more than 2 of.
Tell me something that you hope is easier to do the second time around.
Name A Synonym For Marriage That Doesnt Make It Sound Fun.
Name Something That You Dread Doing After A Break-Up
Name Something Kids Would Play With Outside In Summer.
Name Something You Hope Your Dentist Has Done Before He Starts His Exam.
Name Something On You That Might Be Tied In A Knot.
Name Something Annoying That Some Dogs Do When Greeting You.
Instead Of Walking, Name A Way To Get Around In Snowy Weather
Which Sesame Street Character Must Get Uncomfortable In Their Costume?
Name Something That Can Make A Person Suddenly Think Of Their Partner.
Name A Type Of Shoe That Would Be Hard For A Tightrope Walker To Perform In.
Name Something Youd Hate For Your Car To Bump Into In A Parking Lot.
Name A Place You Might See A Balcony
Name A Singer Who Became Famous As A Child
Name Something A Co-Worker Might Blame On Not Having Had Their Morning Coffee.
Name A Food Thats Often Served With Wine
Name the worst thing for a circus performer to be afraid of.
What Would A Car Thief Hate To Find In The Backseat Of The Car Hed Just Stolen?
Name Something Youd Worry About If You Were To Host A Dinner Party For Your In-Laws
Name Something Scientists Wear In The Lab
If Santa Had A Twitter Account, Who Might Be An Avid Follower Of It?
Name An Occupation In Which You Might Adopt A Fake Name
Name Something Youre Not Supposed To Do While Filling Your Gas Tank.
Name Something That Lives In A Cave
Name A City Where You Would Expect To Pay A Lot For A Hotel.
Name Something That Is Smaller In Europe Than In The US.
Name Something A Child Says When They Do Something Wrong
Name Something You Do After Getting A Bad Haircut
Name Something A Woman Might Wear To Appear More Professional.
Name Something A Man With Very Little Hair Does To Make It Look Like He Has More
Something About A Person That Cosmetic Surgery Cant Fix.
Name A Reason Why You Might Offer Your Bus Seat To Someone Else.
Name A Reason Why A Restaurant Might Refuse Service To Someone
Name Something Youre Told To Turn Off Before An Airplane Takes Flight
Name An Event In Your Life Where Youd Be Unhappy If No One Showed.
Name A Type of Greeting Card That You See A Lot Of In The Spring.
Tell Me A Reason People Get Married
Name A Sport That Should Be Part Of The Olympics, But Isnt.
Name Something Kids Might Try To Get Away With At A Sleepover
What Do People Miss Most About College Once They Get A Job?
Name A Romantic Gift For A Woman That Her 2-Year-Old Might Be Jealous Of.
If You Boil You Veggies Too Long, Name Something They Lose.
Name Something Youre More Likely To See In Australian Than Elsewhare.
Name An Occupation That People Consider Caring.
Besides Syrup, Name Something Kids Love To Put On Their Pancakes.
What Might An Obsessed Lover Do That Causes His Partner To Break Up With Him?
Name A Food With Cheese Thats A Childhood Favorite.
Name Something You Associate With Old McDonald. (Be More Specific Than Animals)
Tell me a boys name that starts with Ch.
We Asked 100 Men: Name Something You Do On A First Date, That You Wouldnt Do A Year Into A The Relationship.
Name A Gift Youd Be Likely To Get As A House Warming Present From Your New Neighbors.
Name Something You Need To Have Along For An Effective Grocery Store Trip.
What Might Your Teenager Do While Borrowing Your Car That Would Break Your Trust?
Name Something That Would Be Harder To Do If You Lived In Los Angeles.
If You Were Pretending To Be Pregnant, Name Something You Might Stuff Under Your Shirt.
Name Something Thats Made With Bananas.
Name Something Valuable That A Baseball Fan Might Collect
Name Something That Used To Take Up Shelf Space In Your House, But Can Now Be Stored Electronically.
If you were to write a memoir,name a specific topic that would come up a lot.
Name Something That Can Be Spoiled.
At The Theater,What Do You Do If The Movie Stinks Within The First 10 Minutes?
Name something a kid might bury in the backyard.
Tell me a good reason to attend your company holiday party.
If you heard a thump in the night,which cleaning tool might you grab for protection?
Where do you get money that cant be used to buy anything in the real world?
We asked 100 Married Women: Name something that your husband does that causes him to be too distracted to listen.
If the North Pole gave guided tours,what specifically would be on the tour?
If there were a college for magicians,name a trick that youre sure would be taught on day one.
If a restaurant had the same rules as your kitchen,what would customers need to do for themselves?
Which doctor do people hate to see?
Name something that women carry more often than men do.
Name a specific chore that you cannot do without making a lot of noise.
Name the loudest animal in the zoo
Name something a new Mom spends a lot of time doing.
Name someone who is more popular dead than when they were alive.
Where in your office would make a good place to hide from your boss.
Name a reason why a person who has a car would call a cab.
Tell me something that youd prefer to do with strangers rather than family.
Name something that some people are paid to chase after.
Name the last thing youd want to happen to you in the airport.
Other than cowboy,name a profession you often see in cowboy movies.
Name a reason why a person might be annoyed that the weather is nice.
Name something you might find in a suitcase that would tell you it belongs to Elton John.
Name something a chauvinist might try to claim that men are better at.
Name something you imagine cavemen gave their girlfriends.
Name someone you have a very hard time saying no to.
Name a specific food or drink moms tell their kids to consume so they grow Big and Strong.
What Do Bosses Let Slide On Fridays?
Name something modern a homemaker from 100 years ago would have loved to have in the kitchen.
Name A Beverage You Get Re-Filled For Free At Many Restaurants
Name A Comic Book Hero That Wears A Red, White And Blue Costume.
Name Something You Hope That Youre Still Doing When Youre 80.
Name A Specific Type Of Math Class Offered In High Schools.
What Are Some Non-Living Thing That You Might See Flying In The Sky?
Name Something Batman Doesnt Leave The Batcave Without.
Which Body Part Might A Pirate Need To Have A Doctor Inspect?
Real Or Fictional, Name A Famous Tony
Name A Reason You Might Not Leave The House For An Entire Day.
Name Something That An Overprotective Parent Might Forbid Their Teen From Doing.
Name Something A High School Student Might Join In Order To Become More Popular.
Name Something A Person Might Buy To Go With Their Motorcycle.
Name A Professional That Charges You For Advice.
Name Something Black That You Associate With Halloween.
Which Word Do You Dread Hearing At The Dentists Office?
Name Something Distracting That You Shouldnt Take With You On A Date.
Name A Job That People Did More 100 Years Ago Than Today.
During A Party, Name A Part Of Your House Where You Wouldnt Want To Find Guests Hanging Out.
Name a common item thats shaped like a bear.
Complete This Sentence. The Key To A Successful Marriage Is ____ing Together.
Which subject would most elementary school kids say is their favorite?
Name Something People Put In Front Of Their House To Deter Burglars.
Name A Term For Someone Who Isnt Very Generous.
What Are You Advised To To Do When Youre Nervous About Speaking In Front A Crowd?
Name A Vacation Spot That A Person With A Fear Of Heights Would Dread.
Name Something Human That People Try To Teach Their Dogs To Do.
Name Something Youre More Likely To See In Australia Than Elsewhere.
Name Something Fake That You Might Give To The Person Hitting On You In A Bar.
Name A Type Of Vehicle Where You Usually Sit In The Back.
Name Something You Have To Get A Picture With During A Vacation To Los Angeles.
Who Might You Pool Money With To Buy Lottery Tickets?
In Action Movies, Name Something The Hero Is Always Trying To Get His Hands On.
Name A Place An Animal Might Take A Bath, But You Never Would.
Name A Complaint People Might Have About Buying Things Online.
Name Something That Kids Are Bummed To Get, But Is Worse To Get As An Adult.
Name A Date When You Shouldnt Break Up With Someone.
Name Something You See The Ground Littered With After The Carnival Has Move On (More Specific Than Trash).
Name Something You Would Do If A Dog Was Chasing You.
Name A TV Show About An Island.
Name Something That A Pill Bottle Warning Might Tell You Not To Do.
Name Something People Associat With Thanksgiving.
Name Something Youd See In An Offices Kitchen Area.
Name A Device That You Keep In Your Bathroom For Grooming Purposes.
Name An Animal That Walks On 4 Legs, But Cant Give Rides.
Name A Profession Where You Might Be Bitten By A Dog.
Name A Type Of Food That Could Most Easily Be Turned Into A Heart-Shape For Valentines Day.
Name A Summer Picnic Food That Will Make Your Face Messy.
Name A Word Or Phrase You Might Use When Addressing Royalty.
Name A Common Mistake People Make When Taking Pictures.
Name A Scent Youd Smell In A Barn
What Do You Do When Your Stomach Growls?
Name An Ingredient That Tacos Would Be No Good Without.
Name Something About Which Friends Say, Keep Looking. You Can Do Better.
Name Something Youd Buy For Your Daughters Barbie Doll, But Probably Not For Your Daughter.
Name Something A Baby Spends A Lot Of Time Doing.
Name An Expression Little Kids Use When They Have To Go To The Bathroom.
Name Something That You Write Out By Hand, Instead Of Type.
Name Something On Their Bodies That People Color In Black.
Where Do People Go After They Leave Church Service?
Name Something A Teen Might Need Their Parents Permission To Do Before Theyre 18.
Tell Me How You Know That Your Friend Is On A Diet.
Instead Of Having A Shouting Match Name Another Tactic A Person Might Use To Win A Disagreement
Name Something That Both A Detective And A Camper Use.
Name Something Donald Trump Probably Keeps With Him At All Times.
Name Something Thats Supposed To Be Funny, But Rarely Is.
Name An Instance When Parents Are Likely To Ask Their Children If They Need To Use The Bathroom.
Name A Place In The House Where Frightened Children Go During A Thunderstorm.
In An 8 Hour Work Day, How Many Hours Does The Average Person Spend Working.
Name The Age That Women Stop Dying Their Hair And Just Decide To Let It Go Grey (Numeric Only).
What Might Someone Promise To Do If They Wanted To Be Elected President?
Name A Mean Prank Kids Play On Halloween
Name a A Synonym For Marriage That Doesnt Make It Sound Fun
Name Something People Do To Their Body That Other People Think Is Crazy.
Name Something You Have To Buy For A Wedding
Name Something In A Beach Bag, Thats Not In Most Purses.
Name Something Mom Tells Her Kids To Do Before Dinner
Name Something People Pass Out For Trick-Or-Treat, That A Child May Be Disappointed To Get.
What Might You Do For A Gift If Youre Short On Cash?
Name Something Talk Show Hosts Do During A Commerical Break.
Name Something Youd Be Surprised To Find That A Superhero Couldnt Do.
Name A Prop You Would See In An Indiana Jones Movie.
Name A Reason Why Youd Get Blindfolded.
Name Something People Look For When Choosing A Diamond.
Name A Type Of TV Show Youd Be Surprised To See A Man Watching.
Name Something Thats Served At Room Temperature.
Name A Gameshow That Has Been Around Forever.
What Was The Last Item On Which You Spent At Least $500?
If You Were Turned Into A Bee, Name Something Youd Have To Learn How To Do.
What Would A Cowboy Do To Cheer Up When Hes Had A Bad Day?
When Doing Laundry For The First Time, Name Something A Single Guy Might Screw Up
If You Loan A Car To A Friend Name Something You Hope They Dont Do.
Name A Number That People Consider Lucky
Name The Age That A Boy First Becomes Interested In Girls.
Name A Car That Old People Like To Own
Name A Piece Of furniture Thats Too big To Fit In A VW Bug
How do you let your partner know that youre thinking of them while your out of town
Name an object that some stomachs are compared to
Name An Activity Thats Good To Do In Moderation, But Not All The Time
If Meat Loaf Surprise was listed on a menu,what might be surprising about it
Name Something A Guy Might Have To remove From A New Dress Shirt Before Wearing It
Name Something From Home You Miss While Staying In A Hotel
Name A Reason Youd Write A Check Instead Of Using Cash Or A Credit Card.
Name Something You Can Do With A Pumpkin
According To Fairly Tales, name A Way To Meet Prince Charming
Name Something Everybody knows About Dr. Seuss
Name a food they serve at the circus
Name Something Children Climb On That Makes Their Parents Worry.
Name Something That Youd Be Asked To Stop Doing In A Movie Theater
Name A Famous Johnson
What Do People Keep In Their Basement
Name something people often lose
Give Me A Name Used For A Person Who Talks A Lot
What skill might you need on your resume in order to get hired by Santa
Name Something That Men Join
Name A Scary Halloween Figure
Name Something About A Cats Life That People May Envy
Name Something A Person Might Do Differently Around Their Partner Once Theyre Married
Name an occupation that thers a shortage of in the United States
Besides Tennis, Name Something People Associate With Andre Agassi
What Would You Have To Learn To Do Before Starring In A John Wayne Movie
Name The Least Private Room In Your House
Name Someone Who Always Has Advice To Give You
Name An Occupation That You Could Show Off At A High School Reunion.
Name Something A Person Pushes That Has Wheels
Name A Public Place Where Its OK To Yell
If Women Designed The Perfect Man, Name A Trait He Might Have
Name A Food You eat At Thanksgiving, but Not During The Rest Of The Year
Of What Material Would You Expect To Queen Of Englands Sheets To Be Made?
Name Something You Do To The Products At The Grocery Store, But Not At A Clothing Store
Name Something People Do During Flu Season To Avoid Getting Sick
Name Something You Can Wear Every Day To Feel Like A Superhero
Name A Medical Instrument That A Doctor Uses
What Would You Expect To See In The Audience Of A Romance Movie?
Name A Reason Why A Plane May Be Delayed
Name Somebody So Rich That Their Name Is Synonymous With Wealth
Name Something A Woman Might Want Her Husband To Quit Doing Before They Have Children
Name Something Many Men Refuse To Ask For Help With
Name An Attribute Of A High School Cheerleader That Could Help Her Become President Of The United States
Name Something That Runs, But Doesnt Have Legs
Name The Most Romantic Place To Go On A First Date
Tell Me A Situation That Makes Just About Everyone Nervous
Which Part Of His Santa Costume Would A Mall Santa Be Humiliated To Lose While Working
Name A Famous James Who Many Women Consider Handsome
In A Classroom, How Can YOU Tell A Teacher Is A Substitute
Besides A Professional Cyclist, Name A Job That Involves Bicycle Riding
Name Something You Buy In Preparation For Halloween
Name An Occupation That Theres A Shortage Of In The United States
Name A Place In Your House That You Hardly Go Into
Name Something Chubby Thats Cute On A Baby, But Not On An Adult
Name Something You Might Buy To go with Your New Pool Table
What Are Some Things That People Wore In The 80S That Are Now Out Of Fashion
Name An Article Of Clothing That You Dont Wash Every Time You Wear It
Which Person In A School Building Is Likely To Get The Biggest Ego
Name Things People Do Before Thanksgiving Day
Name Something You See In A Jail Cell
Name Something Most Answer Machines Messages Ask You To Do
Name A Favor You Hate Having To Ask friends For
Name A Chain Restaurant That Would Never Be Asked To Cater A Fancy Party
If You Were Out Of Town And Forgot To Pack A Change Of Clothes, What Would You Do?
Name Something A Teen I More Likely To Do To Their Appearance Then Their Parents Are
Name A Classical Music Composer That Most Know About
Name something People Drink To Keep Them Awake
Name A Place In Your Car That You Are Likely To Find Something Thats Gone Missing
Name A Type Of Weather Warning That Might Interupt Your TV Show
Name Something A Stalker And A Detective Both Do
Name An Occupation In which Youd Get To Use A Two Way Radio
Which Hobby Should A Man Take Up If He Wants To Meet Women
Name Something People dye A Different Color
Name Something Women Often Compliment Their Friends On
Name An event That Most People Look Forward To Each Week
How Can You Tell That A Letter Was Written By Someone Who Hates To Waste Paper?
Name A Type Of Shoe That Women Own At Least One Of
Name Something A Person Running From The Law Might Not Put On Their Social Networking Site
Name Something That Some People Plan For Months, And Others Do Spur Of The Moment
Name A fruit Thats Hard To Eat Without Getting Messy
Name A Reason Why A Person might Prefer To Travel By Cruise Ship.
Name Something Most Women Want To Be Successful At
Name Something Thats Often Served With Cheese At A Party
Name Something Youre Pleasantly Surprised To Find In Your Chocolate Chip Cookie
Name A Game That Involves The Word King
Name Something Embarrassing That Happens To People At The Airport
Name A Morning Stop That Many Adults Make first, Before going Into Work
Name something people worry will happen to a child star
Name A Desert Thats Sold In Plastic Packages
Name Someone in Your Life Who loves You Unconditionally
Name Something People Do In Their Front Yards In The Summer
Name An Airline You can Fly Almost Anywhere in the US
Name Something People Let Soak Overnight
Name Something A Woman Might Have A Hard Time Doing In Her Last Month Of Pregnancy
early In Dating Someone, Name Something You Shouldnt Do Repeatedly Unless The Feelings Are Mutual
Name A Reminder Of An Ex That Youd Get Rid Of After A Break Up
Name A Food Or Beverage Associated With England
Name A Fruit You Often Find on Or In Pancakes
Name Something That Comes After Its Been Raining
Name An Age That A Boy Becomes Interested In Girls
Name A Millionaire Who Could Never Be Rich Enough For You To Want To Date Him
Name A Bad Habit Some People Haves When They Are Stressed
Name An Alcoholic Beverage Thats Also A Womans Name
Name Something You Might Need In Order To Enter A Childs Treehouse
Name A Reason Why A Couple Decides To Move In Together
Name A Room In Your House You Wouldnt Want Carpeted.
Name A Crime Most People Have Done
Name Something A Realtor Suggests You Do, In Order To Sell Your House
Name Something A Clown Might Wear Thats Oversized
Name A Place Youd Be Surprised To See A New Dad On The Day Of His Childs Birth
Name Something You Find On A Street That The Owner Doesnt Want Returned
Name The Best Dish To Order At A Mexican Restaurant
Name Something People Put In Their Ears
Name A Vegetable You Usually Dont Find In Chicken Soup
Name An event You Might Have A Lot Of Leftovers From
Name Something You Might Stay In And Do On A Rainy Day
Name The First Animal You Picture When You Think Of A Farm
Name something People Eat With Crackers
Name A Letter That Is Hard To Use In Scrabble
Name Something That Starts With B That People Look For In A Partner
Whose car would A Thief Be Unlikely To Steal?
What Should You Do To Celebrate The First Snowfall?
Name a Type Of Vehicle Thats Noisier Than The Average Car.
Name an event that cuts into regular television programming
Name An Occassion For Which You Order A Fancy Cake
Name Another Word A Cool Guy Might Use For Car
Name Something A Child Asks For Just To Delay His Bedtime
Name Something A Person Who Dislikes Technology Might Not Have
Name Something A doctor Tells You To Do More Of
Name A Reason Why A Stand-up Comedian Might Say He Had A Bad Night
Name Something That Works Better On A Windy Day
Besides Make Drinks, Name Something Else A Bartender Might Do.
Name Something That Causes A Person To Laugh
Name Something You Would Hate To Be Wearing When Company
Name A Small Kitchen Appliance That A Bachelor May Not Have
Name Something Kids Look Forward To The Most In The Winter.
Besides A Phone Number, Name A Set Of Numbers Most People Remember
Name Something You Would Do If You Heard That Your Favorite Cereal Was Discontinued
name something You Hope For, But Cant Count On, When Going On Vacation
Name A Complaint People Have About Shoes With Laces.
Name A Skill Kids Are Taught So Theyre Able to Make Friends
Name Something Kids Would Play With Outside In Summer
Other Than Speeding, Name A Reason A Cop Might Pull You Over.
Name Something That A Businesswoman Must Always Wear To Work.
Which Words Do You Dread Hearing At The Dentists Office?
Name An Unhealthy Ingredient You Often See In Kids Cereals.
Other Than Halloween, Name A Reason Why You Might Wear A Costume.
Name Something That Is White In Your Refrigerator.
Name Something Thats On Your Dinner Table Every Night That The Dog Wont Beg For.
Name A Day Of The Year That Some People Dont Want To Spend Alone.
Name An Occupation That A Boy Wouldnt Want His Girlfriends Father To Have.
Name Something You Put In Your Mouth But Do Not Swallow.
Name Something You Stow Away Most Of The Year, And Take Out During The Holidays.
How Many Dates Should You Go On Before Kissing Someone?
Name Something Kids Look Forward To The Most In winter
Name A Sport That Requires Water In Order To Be Played
Name Something Specific Thats Sauteed
Name An Unhealthy Ingredient You Often See In Kids Cereal
Tell Me Something Women Would Want Men To wear More Often
Name An Occupation That Youd be In Trouble If You Disrespected
Name something Kids Dissect In Science Class
Name An Excuse People Use At A Party To Get Away From A Boring Person.
Name A reason You Wouldnt recognize Someone At Your High School Reunion
Name A Hollywood Man Who would Have No Trouble Getting dates If He Were Single.
Name Something A Home Might Have To Make It energy Efficient
What Is The Most Common Thing People Get stuck In Their Hair
name Something You Put in Your Mouth But dont Swallow
name A Talent You Rarely See Women Do Outside A Beauty Pageant
Name Something You Eat That Comes With Sauce
Name Something You Wear When You Ride A Bike.
Food That Has A Hole In The Middle.
We Asked 100 Women: Name Something You Would Not Like To Have a Man Do For You On a Date.
Name Something You Clean that Only Gets Dirty Again in A Day
Other Than Love, Name A Word Thats in Almost Every Love Song
Name An Occupation that a boy Wouldnt Want His Girlfriends Father To Have
Name A Hot Place Where Youd Never Expect To See People Eating Ice Cream.
Name Something You Never Quite Believed About The Brady Bunch.
Tell Me A Fast Food Item That Comes In Sizes Too Big For You To Consume.
Name Something The Police Might Look For When They Search A Suspects House.
Name A Reason Why A Child You Dont Know Might Come To Your Door.
Name A Household Activity That People Wear Gloves While Doing.
Name An Occupation That You Hope Is Great At Their Job 100% Of The Time.
Which Sounds Do Children Listen For On Christmas Eve?
Name An Exercise Youd Have A Hard Time Doing 10 Of.
What Would You Be Pleasantly Surprised To Receive On A First Date?
Name Something A Political Contest And A Football Game Have In Common.
Name Something A Woman Might Suggest Her Husband Do To Improve His Appearance.
What Might You Be Afraid Of While Sleeping In A Tent?
Name Something Thats Hard To Build But Easy To Tear Down.
Name A Time When A Man Might Be Extra Caring Toward His Wife
Name Something That causes Yo To Become Friends With Someone You Otherwise wouldnt Have
Although It Was Nice To Be A Kid, Name A Part Of Childhood Youd Never Want To Go Through Again.
If Stuck With No Diapers, What Might A Desperate Parent Use Instead?
Name Something You Put On Your Face, That Youd Never Dream Of Putting On Your Feet.
Name A Word Or Phrase That Ends In -Phobia.
Name Something A Man Might Ask His Dads Advice On.
Name An Animal That Might Live In A Tree
Name Something That Gets Into Your House If You Leave Food Out.
Name Something Thats Essential To Creating A Romantic Atmosphere At Home.
Name Something You Would Not Want To Drop Your Wedding Ring Into.
Name Something It Might Be Ok to Lie To A Partner About In Order To Spare Their Feelings.
Despite Its Beauty, Name A Reason Why You Wouldnt Want To Live In Hawaii.
Name A Kids Movie that Makes Adults Cry To.
Name A Coffee Drink Thats Easy To Mispronounce.
When Hosting A Dinner Party What Might You Ask A Friend To Bring.
Name Something That The Bride And Groom Do At A Wedding, That Another Guest Should Not.
If An Auctioneer Had A Baby, What Might Be Her First Words?
Name A Halloween Costume That Young Girls Often Wear.
Tell Me An Invention That Probably Led To People Having Much Less Spare Time.
Name Something That Many People Are Afraid To Drive On.
What Are Some Actions People Might Take To Be More Earth Friendly?
Name A Meal That Sometimes Comes With A Bib Even For Adults.
Name Something That Gets Sewn Onto Clothes
Name A Job In Which You Could Wear Shorts To Work.
How Would Your Friends Begin Greeting You If Royal Family Mem
Name Something You Bring To A Party Even If The Host Doesnt Ask You To Bring Anything
If A Con Man Approached You, What Do You Think Hed Immediately Want To Know?
Name A Sports Whose Athletes Youd Least Like To Get In A Fight With
Name A Word Or Phrase A Cowboy Might Say While On His Horse
Name Something You Find More Of At A Sporting Event, Than At A Movie Theater
Name A Drink That Many People Love Despite Its Bitter Taste
Name Something You Do To Let A Friend Know She Has Food On Her Face
Something Women Talk About On Girls Night Out
Name Something That Only A Person Who Really Loves Christmas Would Do As Early As October.
Name A Reason Your Cell Phone Might Stop Working.
Part Of Uniform Clown Hates Putting On
What In A Crime Scene Would An Investigator Check For Fingerprints?
Name Something A Home Might Have Energy Efficient
Name A Reason A Couple May Keep A Close Watch On A Calender.
name A Sport Or Athletic League Whose Large Athletes Youd Hate To Ride A See-Saw With.
Name A Job In Which Youd Be Exposed To A Lot Of Germs
Name Something Many Teens Want To Do Before Their Parents Think They Are Ready.
Tell Me A Place Where You Dont Want To Leave Early
Name Something You Dread Doing After A Snowfall
Name A Simple Car Game Surprised People Playing For Money
Name A Job That Many Celebrities Had Before They Were Famous.
Name A Common Household Item That Was A Luxury To Have 50 Years Ago
How Can You Tell Immediately That An E-Mail Is Spam?
Name A Good Reaon To Live Near In-Laws
What Do You Do At The 1st Sign Of Sickness So That It Doesnt Get Worse
Name A Holiday Thats Associated With Candy.
Name Something In Your House That Can Be Set.
Name A State People Visit On A Ski Vacation
Name Something People Mark On Their Calendars.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Many Men Think Women Look Attractive In
Name Something You Hope That Youre Still Doing When Youre 80
Name Something You Bring To A Tailgate Party
Name Something Kids Often Ask For Before Bed, That Their Parents Refuse
Name Something That Couples Often Get More Than One Of As Wedding Presents.
Name A Disadvantage To Living Upstairs From A Restaurant
Name A Mode Of Transportation That You See In Big Cities, But Not In Small Towns
Name A Reason Why Someone Might Hold Off On Getting Married.
Name A Character Famous For Selling Cereal.
Name A Reason Why A Workplace Might Not Have Their Annual Christmas Party.
Name An Annoying Thing About Pigeons
Before You See Any Fighting, How Do You Know Youre Watching A Kung Fu Movie?
Name Somewhere That Parents Cant Wait For Their Kids To Go
Tell Me Something That Waddles
Name A Reason Somebody Would Wear A Hat All The Time
Name A Reason People Might Put Lawnchairs On The Sidewalk
Soemthing Strapped To Familys Car On Vacation
Name A Method Of Communication That Should Not Use Break Up
Name Something You Say At The End Of A Date, Even If You Dont Mean It.
What Sticks In Your Head Most From An Irritating But Memorable Commercial.
Name A Type Of Product Comes In Teeth Whitening Formula
If You Sent A Postcard From China, What Would Be Pictured On The Front?
Name Something A Child Does To Prove Theyre Too Sick For School.
Name Something In Your Daily Routine You Could Still Do Even If Youre Wearing a Strait Jacket.
What Might Your Co-Worker Do To Let You Know She Is Very Excited About Christmas?
Name Authority Figure Whose Role Makes It Hard To Imagine Them Letting Loose On A Date
We Asked 100 Men: Name Something Your Partner Will Never Do As Well as Mom.
Job Around The House Couple Might Take Turns Doing
Other Than Letter And Punctuation Keys, Which Computer Key Would You Not Want To type A Report Without?
Name Something A Doctor Might Ask A Patient To Do During A Checkup.
Name Something Humans Wear, But Cats Look Silly In
Name An Article Of Clothing Your Husband Often Receives At The Holidays, But Rarely Wants
Name Something Your Teen Likes To Wear, But You Hope Hell Leave Home On Picture Day.
Name Something Youd Do At A Family Christmas Party, That You Shouldnt Do At The Office Christmas Party.
If A Person Doesnt Cook Well, Which Thanksgiving Food Might They Buy Instead Of Bake?
Name A Reason, Other Than Hard Work, That Your Boss Would Give You A Raise
Name Something Youd Find In A Punk Rockers Bedroom
Somewhere You Might Stop On The Way To Work
Name A Trait Thats Essential For A High School Teacher To Have
Name Something That An Overprotective Parent Might Forbid Teen To Do
Which Food That Gets Stuck In You Teeth Should Be Avoided On A Date?
Name Something You Would Need To Eat A Steak.
Who Do You Like To Know Is Available In Case Of Emergency
What Type Of Vehicle Might A Family With Lots Of Children Want To Own?
Name A Talent Cant Be Learned, Born With
Name A Type Of Photo That Most People DonT Smile In
Name Way To Get Into Car If You Leave Keys Inside
Something Rude People Do While Smoking
Name Something People In The 1950?s Thought We Would Have By The Year 2000
Name Something About Love That Some People Believe In and Others Dont
If You Wanted To See Date In Less Clothing, Where Go?
Something Rich Person Might Have More Of Than They Need
Name Something Husbands Will Admit That They Borrow From Their Wives
Unlike Coffee, Name A Beverage That You Could Never Make Money Off Selling By The Cup.
Name A Word That Polite People Use Often.
Name Something Thats Given As A Free Sample In Stores
Another Word Or Phrase Means Kiss
Name Something You Can Build With Snow
Which Sesame Street Character Uncomfortable In Their Costume
Name Something About A Cartoon Character That Might Be Brightly Colored
What Do People Do More On The 4th Of July Than On The 5th Of July?
Name An Animal That A Pirate Would Most Likely Have On His Ship.
Name Something YouD Hate See Your Date Wear To Symphony
How Many Weeks In Advance Do You Decorate For Christmas?
Name A Type Of Contest You Might Enter At A County Fair
After Having Kids, Name Something That Happens That Interrupts A Couples Alone Time At Night.
What Might You Bring To The Stadium If You Wanted To Be Featured On The Jumbo Tron Screen.
What Might A Fan Ask Of Their Favorite Musician For If They Met In Person
Name An Expense From A Business Trip That Your Employer Probably Wouldnt Reimburse
Instead Of Their First Name, What Might A Parent Shout When Calling For Their Child?
Name A Large Animal That Many People Are Afraid Of
Name Something A Father/ Son Might Have The Same
Name An Article Of Clothing That Usually Cant Be Put In The Dryer
Name A Cartoon Pet Thats Smarter Than Its Owner.
Name A Famous Sight That Tourists Take An Elevator Up To See
Name An Activity Thatd Be Hard To Do By CandleLight
Name Something You Imagine Youd See All Over If You Went To Australia
Put In Backyard If You Have Children
What Might A House Have That Makes Trick/ Treaters Afraid Approach
Why Might A Door-To-Door Salesperson Skip A Particular House?
Name Something You Include On A Letter, But Not On An E-Mail.
Name Something That Happens During A Commute And Makes You Late For Work
What Might A Daring Thrill Seeker Suggest Do On 1st Date
Name Something That Can Cause A Flat Tire.
Name A Sport That You Wouldnt Play Without Protective Equipment
In A Spelling Bee, What Might A Kid Ask About A Word Before Spelling It?
Name Something A Politician Does When Scandalous News Breaks Out About Them.
Which Board Game Is Most Challenging
Name Something That You Often Have A Hard Time Concentrating On.
Name A Color Some Men Never Wear
Name Something Santa Might Bring With Him To Keep From Getting Lost On Christmas Eve.
Name Something That Builds A Nest
If Youre Driving In The Middle Of No Where, What Animal Might You See Crossing The Street?
Name An Animal Thats Not Loved By Many People
Name Something A Woman Would Hate To Have The Same As Someone Else
Name An Animal That Sleeps During The Day And Stays Up At Night.
Name Something Youd Hate To Have Happen If You Went Up In A Hot Air Balloon.
Name A Job Where You Get To Play With Dolls All Day.
What Have You Done To A Crush You Hope They Never Find Out
Which Word Or Phrase Is Often Used As A Magicians Magic Word(s)?
Something People Imagine They Would See On Every Corner In Hollywood
Name Something Thats Not As Great When In Its Minature Form
What Might Happen To Cause A Rock Concert To End Abruptly?
Name A Type Of Map
Name An Occupation In Which You Might Be Able To Get Away With Breaking The Law.
Name A Profession That Someone May lie About Having Just To Impress A Guy or Girl.
Name A Food That Pregnant Women Crave.
Name A Meal That Most People Can Make Without A Recipe
Where, Specifically, Would You Most Hate To Find Ants?
Name A Reason Why Youd Get A Blindfold.
Name Something A Parent Might Limit Their Childs Time Using
Name A Piece Of Information Thats On Every Menu
What Is The Most Valuable Thing In Wallets?
Name The Worst Job For Someone With Allergies.
Something You Are Glad Is Prohibited On Most Airlines
Name Something A School Wastebasket Is Probably Full Of.
Name An Object Considered To Be Good Luck
Name Something On Payday You Do After Work
Name A Fruit That Can Get Bruised
Name a Fast Food Thats Often Served As A Main Course At Weddings.
Food Often Served With Wine
We Asked 100 Married Women: Name Something You Wish Your Husband Would Be More Helpful With Around The House
Name A Way That You Can Track Down An Old Friend
Name A Place Where A Teenager Wouldnt Want To Be Seen With Their Parent.
Tell Me An Excuse For Not Going To Work That No One Really Believes
What Diaper Bag Item Would A Parent Hate To Be Without?
Name A Famous Marilyn Monroe Wannabe
Name Something A Batchelor Might Turn Inside Out
Vegetable That Starts With Word Sweet
Name A Food That Usually Tastes So-So, Fantastic Once Fried
Name A Style Of Music That Youd Be Surprised To Hear That A Teenager Listened To.
Name Something You Hope A Restaurant Chef Didnt Do Before Cooking Your Meal.
Name A Place Where You Often Find An Elevator.
Name Something An Astronaut Has To Go Without When Traveling In Space
Name Something A Teen Might Get In Trouble Doing In A Photo
What Are The Advantages Of Having An Air Guitar Rather Than a Real Guitar?
Name A Word Or Phrase That A Lifeguard Might Yell
Name A City That Is Best Known For Its Nightlife
We Asked 100 Wives: What Does Your Husband See On TV That Guarantees Hell Stop Flipping Channels?
Name Something Of Your That The Dog Likes To Play With.
Name A Reason Why A Child You Dont Know At Your Door
Name A Fictional Character Who Makes Spy Work Look Like A Lot Of Fun.
What Ailment Might You Have The Morning After A Wild Party?
Something Kid Looks Forward To At Beginning Of New School Year
Name A Party Game That YouD Be Surprised To See At An AdultS Birthday
Name Something Kids Must Be Asked Over And Over
Which Piece Of Technology Would People Have The Hardest Time Giving Up?
How Can You Tell That A TV Show Is Old Time?
Name A Type Of Candy That Sounds Like Something Youd Dig Up From The Ground
Name A Direction Youre Given When Having A Group Photo Taken.
Name Something That Action Movie Stars Always Jump Off Of.
Marriage About To Fail, What Do You Do To Save It
Name A Household Chore That A Kid Would Find Fun, But An Adult Would Put Off
Something People Lie About In Personals
Animal Many Magicians Own
Name Something Many People Probably Lie About In Their Personal Ads
Teen Nervous On 1st Date
Name The Electronic Device That You Use Most In A Day
Name Something In Your House That Has Numbers On It.
Name A Place Where You Need An Appointment
Name An Occupation In Which Youd Need To Wear Comfortable Shoes.
Name A Part Of Your Morning Ritual That Its Hard To Get The Energy To Do.
Name A Food That You Might Need Help Removing The Lid From
What Might Authorities Ask To See When Youre Crossing An International Border?
Other Than Paper, Name Something A Kid Might Scribble On
If You Met The Real Life Prince Charming, How Would You Know It Was Him?
At The Video Arcade, What Might Your Date Do To Make You Mad
Name Something Used To Make Yourself Smell Better
Name A Crime That Most Cops Have Probably Committed Themselves.
What Might A Poker Player Do To Make Bluffing Easier?
Name A Phrase Thats Said In Commercials To Get You To Buy The Product Right Away.
What Would Santa Hate To Forget On Christmas Eve?
Name A Nursery Rhyme Character With Bad Luck
Name A Game In Which Small Children Have An Advantage Over Adults
What Do You See In The Mall That Lets You Know Christmas Is Coming?
How Can You Tell That The Person Who Shares Your Room Is Having Trouble Sleeping?
Other Than Matches, Name Something People Use To Start A Fire.
Name A Weather Condition That Might Cause You To Have Wacky Hair
Name Something You Look Forward To Getting In The Mail.
Name Something From Your Ex That You Might Get Rid Of When Starting A New Relationship.
Where In Your House Might You Find Something Labeled Poisonous?
What Everyday Activity Burns The Most Calories?
What Domestic Activity Would You Be Surprised To Find Mrs. Claus Couldnt Do?
Name A Meal That Someone Who Loves Cheese Would Eat Often
Name A Food That You Often Burn Your Tongue While Eating.
Name A Way To Tell If You Neighbors Are Home.
Name A City Where A Movie Car Chase Never Be Filmed
Name Something You Might Climb A Tree To Get
Which Magic Trick Would Become Dangerous If The Magician Was A Phony?
We Asked 100 Women Id Notice____Missing From My Purse
If There Was A School For Training Rock Stars, Who Might Be The Principal?
Place You Might Go Quickly In Pajamas
Name Something A Hollywood Stunt Person Gets Paid To Do, But Your Teen Would Get Punished For Doing.
Name Something A Divorced Person Might Do With Their Wedding Ring
What Do Parents Instruct Their Children To Do While Riding In The Car?
Other Than Teeth, Name Something People Use A Toothbrush To Clean
Name An Item You Wouldnt Buy Online, See In Real Life
Name A Famous Set Of Sisters
Name Something That Comes In A Carton
Why Might Parents Wait Until After The Baby Is Born To Give It A Name?
Name An Article Of Clothing That Youd Only Try On In Front Of Someone With Whom Youre Very Comfortable.
Other Than Teeth Something People Use Toothbrush To Clean
How Can A Kid Get A Bully To Stop Picking On Them
Name Something A Doctor Better Not Be Afraid Of
Name A Book Where The Main Hero Is A Kid
Name Something Teens Do To Butter Parents Before Asking A Favor
Name A Muscular Celebrity Who Would Probably Have Trouble Finding Clothes In His Size.
Name A Way You Can Tell Someone Is A Doctor By Just Looking At Them.
In The Grocery Store, How Can You Identify A Penny-Pincher?
While At The Wedding, Name Away You Can Tell That The Marriage Wont Last
Name A TV Show, Past Or Present, That Takes Place In A Hospital
Name Something People Pose In Front Of For Their Christmas Photos.
Whats The First Thing Youre Likely To Be Asked About At Your High School Reunion?
What Do Some People Look To For Relationship Guidance, That You Dont Believe In?
Other Than Sheets, Something On Bed
Name Something A Woman Might Stop Maintaining Once Shes In A Serious Relationship
Name A Situation In Which Someone Might Get Crowned.
On Family Feud, Name Something Host Asks Players About
Name A Word Grooms Say Theyll Do At The Alter, But Probably Never Say After The Wedding
What Would You Do If A Group Of Carolers Come To House
Something You Hope Vampire Leaves At Home On A Date
Something Woman Do To Show Affection A Man Rarely Does
Name A Specific Sign Of Affection Woman Wants From Husband
What Might Someone Promise To Do If They Wanted Elect President
What Do People Pay To Have Guessed At The Carnival?
Instead Of A Schoolbus, How Might A Wealthy Kid Get To School?
Name Something Naughty That Children Do While At The Store
Name Something People Write About In Their Yearly Christmas Letter To Loved Ones.
Name Something You Do To Get Rid Of A Song Thats Stuck In Your Head.
Name Something An Elevator Operator Probably Gets Tired Of Saying
Name Something Most Parents Would Let Their Teen Experiment With
Which Actress Gets Most Love Letters
Tell Me Something You Hate To Wear Too Short.
Something You Do Differently For Job Interview
Something In House That Needs To Be Replaced Regularly
Name A Part Of The Body That Gets Mentioned A Lot In Romantic Songs
Name A Special Occasion For Which Someone Might Go To A Hairdresser
Name A Specific Event People Create Photo Album
Name Someone You Would Hate To Send Personal Mail
Name A Quality Thats Important In A Friend, and Even More Important In A Spouse.
Without The Uniform, How Can You Tell That Someone Is In The Mlitary
Name Something That Happens To People When They Get Embarrassed.
Like A Colored Easter Egg, Which Holiday Object Is Fun To Have When Its Fresh, But Not Fun To Find Months Later.
Name A Common Gag Gift At An Over The Hill Birthday Party.
Name A Famous Desert
What Might An Actor Do To Make You Not See Their Movies Anymore?
Name Something A Mom Might Tell Her Kid To Shower After Doing
Name A Type Of Glove That Is Not Used For Warmth
Name A Word Or Phrase That Ends In  Phobia
Name A Good Job To Have If You Want To Get A Nice Tan
Name A Place In The House Where Only A Real TV-Lover Would Put A Television
Name A Kind Of Tree That Would Look Silly To Have As A Christmas Tree.
What Might You See In Front Of The Neighbors House That Lets You Know Theyre Moving?
On A Road Trip, Name Something That Might Keep You Awake
Name Animal That Makes Pretty Sound
Name Something You Never Cook At Home, But Order When Eating At The Restaurant
Name A Specific Junk Food That Youd Never Want To Give Up
What Sounds Do Children Listen For On Christmas Eve
Name Something People Put In The Envelope With Their Holiday Cards.
What Would Be Surprised To Happen Riding Stationary Bike
Name Something You Find Left In The Washer
Name Something That Gets Pulled Around In A Sled
From What Activity Is A Man Most Likely To Be Late Getting Home From?
Name a Hobby That Would Be Ironic For A Firefighter To Have.
Name A Bad Job For Someone Whos Afraid Of Heights
Name Something People Might Stock Up On Before A Huge Snowstorm
How Can You Tell That The Person In The Car Next To You Is Listening To Music?
What Might A Restaurant Have Inside It That Would Cause It To Be Closed Down
If You Were Stranded With Other People On An Island, Which Useful Occupations Would You Want Them To Have?
Name Something That Could Keep A Family Apart On Christmas
Name Common Mistake People Make When Taking Pictures
Name Something You Might Leave On All Night
Name A Place Where School Children Often Go For Field Trips.
What Is The Most Fun Thing A Farmer Gets To Ride On?
Name Something Youd Need If You Wanted To Dress As A Vampire For Halloween.
Tell Me Something About Summer That You Look Forward To Most
Tell Me Something About Santa Clause That Would Give You The Creeps If Youd Never Heard Of Him.
Why Might Someone Ride Their Bike To Work?
Name A Coffee Drink Thats Easy To Mispronounce
Name Something That Would Be Very Messy If You Put It In The Microwave Uncovered
Name A Reason Why A Woman Calls Her Husband While Hes Out.
Who Is A Childs Most Anticipated Visitor?
Something Women Do More Gracefully Than Men
Name A Wedding Gift That The Bride And Groom Can Never Have Too Much Of
Name A Place That Closes Early For A Person To Run Errands After Work.
Name Something A Housekeeper Does Cleaning Hotel Room
Name A Part Of Your Body That Feels Stuffed UP When You Have A Cold.
Name Something Not Valid Unless Its Signed
If You Got To Be Fearless For One Day, Name The First Thing Youd Try
Besides Dancing, Name Something People Do On The Dance Floor
Name A Talk Show You Might Go On Tell About Disaster Wedding
Where You Would Go Out In Costume Not On Halloween
Name A Talk Show Host Who Many People Respect
Name An Animal That You Can Ride At The Circus
Other Than Looking Up Numbers, Name Something A Phone Book Gets Used For
Name Something You Expect To Find In A Modern Home
Something Politician Would Hate To Come Out About Past In News
Name A Topic People Might Whisper About.
If An Auctioneer Had A Baby, What Are First Words?
Where Do You Need To Be A Member In Order To Enter?
What Activity Dont You Start Doing Until The Water Gets Warm?
Name Something You Never Leave Unlocked
Name Something People Cheat On
Name A Diet Method That Doesnt Seem Very Reliable.
Name Something That Smells Really Bad When On Fire
Name Something A Woman Calls A Partys Host To Ask
Something People Make For Babies Instead Of Buying
Whats The Messiest Thing To Clean Up After The Christmas Holiday?
If You Could Only Pack A Small Overnight Bag, What Specific Essentials Would Be In It?
Name Something About A Person That Might Be Described As Funky
Name a Phrase That Begins With The Word Double.
Name Some Activities People Do On Christmas That They Dont Do On Other Holidays?
Name Something You Close At Nighttime.
Occupation Where You Would Be On Phone All Day
Something Bride And Groom Do That Others Should Not At Wedding
Name A Reason Why Parents Want Know Sex Of Baby
Tell Me Something People Do To Brace Themselves While Getting A Shot
Name A Word Or Phrase Used To Describe Milk Thats Past Its Expiration Date.
Name Something A Parent Wants To See Baby Do 1St Time
Name Something You Can Find In Wallets
Name A Reason Why Big City Bad Place For A Marathon
Something About Current Job Better Than Former Job
Name Something That Chili May Come With Or Without.
If A Person Is Raised On A Farm, Name Something You Expect Them To Be Better At
Name Something A Radio DJ Might Accidentally Do If He Didnt Know He Was On The Air.
What Might Date Do To Make You Think You Have Bad Breath
Name Something A Fast Food Restaurant Offers As A Dessert
Instead Of Money, What Might Santa Give His Reindeer As Pay?
Man Do On First Date To Be Husband Material
Name Something Parents Warn Their Children Not To Get Their Fingers Caught In.
Name Something A Losing Sports Team Does To The Winners To Show Good Sportsmanship
Name A Place In The Car Where People Hide Their Valuables.
Name Something That Can Be Inconvenient To Do While Camping.
How Do You Find Proper Directions If Lost
Name Something Some People Blast The Volume On
Name Something Of Dads That Kids Arent Allowed To Use
Which Holiday Should We Have Day Off
Name A Holiday That Most People Dont Get Off From Work.
How Do You Know That Youre Tuned Into A Country Radio Station?
Name Something You Mix With Water Before Drinking
Name Something Provided In Some Waiting Rooms To Help Pass The Time
Name An Item You Associate With The Word Expensive
What Do You Do The Night Before A Big Job Interview
In Which Profession Might You Have A Large Assortment of Wigs?
Name A Gift That Would Be Romantic To Get From Your Husband, But Creepy To Get From Your Father-In_Law.
What Is The Most Important Thing To Do When Planning A Valentines Day Date?
Tell Me A Way To Say Hi In Another Language
Name A Place You Visit Where You Arent Allowed To Touch Anything.
We Asked 100 Women: Name A Gift That Youd Always Be Happy To Get From Your Partner.
Name The Person Who You Most Try To Avoid Having An Argument With.
Name A Safety Device That Older Cars Didnt Have
Name An Occupation That People Consider Caring
Name An American City That Has Its Own Accent
Name Something You Only Consume When You Go To A Fast Food Restaurant.
Name A Dessert Thats Made With Strawberries
Name An Animal Whose Print Looks Natural On Them, But Gaudy When Your Neighbor Wears It
Something Scientist Has Lots Of
Name Something A Parent Tries, To Get Their Baby To Sleep.
Name Something Thats Legal For A Police Officer To Do, But Not For Anyone Else
Name Something That Often Looks Better In Advertised Pictures Than In Real Life.
Something Popcorn Is Covered With
Name Something Tasty Thats Used To Decorate Christmas Cookies
Name Something That Comes With A Hood
Name A State That Youd Hate To Live In During Summer
Name Something That Breaks Easily Without Its Case.
Name A Gift YouD Likely Get Housewarming Presents
What Might Parents Be Caught Doing That Causes Their Kid To Bust Them For Doing Santas Job?
Name Something A Parent Reminds Kid Use At Summer Camp
Name Something A Kid Might Want Help Doing On A Snowy Day.
Name Something People Forget To Do When In a Hurry To Leave The House.
Instead Of Playing With Their Gift, Which Packaging Item Might A Toddler Choose To Play With Instead.
Name A U.S. City With Very Aggressive Drivers
Name Something That New Orleans Wouldnt Be Same Without
Name Something That Would Be Harder To Do If You Lived In Los Angeles
Name Something Many People Do In Response To Compliment
Name A Monster Some People Believe Exists No Evidence
Something Cowboy Wears Makes Him Sexy
Who In Your Life Surprised To Get Text From
Name An Animal Associated With A Holiday
Name Something Kids Might Use to Help Them Count.
Name Something From The Laundry Thats Impossible To Fold Neatly.
Name Something Permanent On a Criminals Skin That Police Use To Be Sure Theyve Got Their Man.
Name Event Your Loved Ones Might Travel To Attend
Name A Reason Why Workers Might Go On Strike.
Something Kids Get Excited About Long Before It Happens
Something Kid Wouldnt Want To Tell Mom About School Day
Whose Phone Number Might A Child Know By Heart?
Where Do You Like To Go Barefoot?
Name A Bug Keeps You Up All Night In Bedroom
Name Something You Try To Prevent From Getting Flat
Animal You Would Not Want To Encounter Hanging From Tree
Name Something People Used To Do At A Younger Age, That Nowadays They Do When Theyre Older
Name A Place People Cram Into
Safety Advice Parents Give Kids
Place Hot Dogs Are Often Served
Where Do You Put Presents So They Arent Found Before Given
Name A Sport That People Bet On
Name Something In A House That A Spoiled Kid Might Have Their Own Of.
Name A Job Where You Must Keep A Certain Haircut.
Name Famous Department Store In New York City
In A Scary Movie, Name Something Specific That Causes A Character To Scream
Name A Sign Of Aging That Is Attractive
We Asked 100 Women: What Might You Get 2 Tickets For In Order To Entice Your Crush Into A Date?
Name Something A Vacation Brochure Tells You About A Destination
Name An Occasion Where Itd Be Embarrassing To Show Up Empty Handed.
In Which Profession Wear Sweat Pants
Name A Reason Why A College Football Player Might Get Kicked Off His Team.
In What State Would You Like To Retire
What Might A Woman Do On A First Date To Make You Suspect He Was An Undercover Cop?
What Might A Professional Athlete Do Just After A Sports Game To Avoid Getting Sore Muscles?
Past Or Present, Name A TV Couple Whose Marriage You Dont Want To Emulate.
Name A Public Place Where It Is Okay To Yell
What Might A Tv Not Work Without,
Name A Physical Characteristic That Aliens Are Said To Have
Whats Something You Drink To Make You Warmer?
Name Something You Have Seen Added To Jello
Name A Drink You Get At A Cafe That Most People Cant Make At Home
Name A Profession Where You May Receive Lots Of Mail From Strangers.
What Might A Babysitter Want To Know
Name Something You Hope To Have Your Seat Near While Riding In A Plane
Tell Me Something You Avoid When You Are Sick
Tell Me A Good Score When Playing 18 Holes Of Golf.
Name Something That Can Be Spoiled
What Reason Would Most People Give For Why They Drink Coffee?
Name An Age That People Worry About Turning
If There Was An Award For Loudest In The Zoo, Which Animal Would Win It?
On A Scale From 1-10, How Good Are You At Keeping A Secret?
Name The Time Of Night When Its Too Late To Call Someones House.
Name A Kind Of Cookie People Love To Dunk In Milk
Name A Night Of The Week When People Stay Up Later Than Usual
Name Something That Would Soothe An Upset Stomach
Tell Me A Celebration You Wish Would Last All Year
Name Something People Wait In Line For On Hot Days
Name Something A Contestant In A Beauty Pageant Might Wear
Name Something A Man Might Do At The Gym To Impress A Woman.
Name Something A Dad Would Look Silly Borrowing From His Child At The Bowling Alley.
Name A Famous Robert Who Many Women Consider Handsome.
Name An Article Of Clothing That Most People Have 10 Of.
If You See Pink Frosting On A Cake, What Flavor Would You Expect It To Be
Before Visiting A New City, Name Something For Which You Might Get A Recommendation.
Name A Reason Why Its Hard To Slow Dance With A Ghost.
Name A Decoration You Might Find Inside A Mexican Restaurant.
Name A Person Who Youd Never Trust to Set You Up On A Blind Date
Name Something A Couple Shouldnt Do Until They Have Known Each Other For A Long Time.
Which Color Would You Be Surprised To See A Bride Wearing On Her Wedding Day?
Name Something YouD Hate To Find Floating In Your Coffee
Name Something Santa Does, That You Wouldnt Want Your House Guests To Do.
Name A Specific Night Of The Year That You Hope To Be Kissed.
Name Something That You Can Get For Free At A Casino.
Name Something Santa Does That You wouldnt want Your House guest To Do.
Other Than Displays Of Affection, Name Something You Wish Couples Wouldnt Do In Public.
Name A Reason You Might Dread Going To A New Years Party At A Club.
Name A Song That Has Christmas In The Title
Name A Complaint Next-Door Neighbor Might Approach With
What 3 Words Cause Argumentative Person Stop Fighting
Name Something Youre Advised To Wear In Order To Look Slim
What Might A Parent Videotape Their Child Doing Around The Christmas Holiday?
Sign That Girlfriend Is Turning Into A Cat
What Is A Color That You Would See On A Countrys Flag?
Name Something A Groom Hate To Lose Before Wedding
Another Word For Long Underwear
Tell Me A Reason People Give For Wearing Black.
If An Alien Gave You A Guided Tour Of Outer Space, What Would Be Must-See Stops?
Other Than To Buy Books, Why Might Someone Go To A Bookstore?
What Do You Find Out About A Town By Reading Signs On The Side Of The Road?
Name A Profession Thats Only Successful If People Are Laughing At Them.
Name A Specific Person Youd Ask To Help You Move If You Were In A Jam.
Name Something Parents Of Twins Do That Makes Their Children Seem Even More Similar.
Something Specific People Do In Front Of Mirror
Animal You Would Refuse To Pet Sit For
Name Something People Wear To Avoid A Sunburn
Hobby That Would Make You Go Broke Quickly
What Would A College Kid Do Right Before Parents Visit?
Name Something It Would Be Rude Not To Do When Being Introduced To A Stranger
Name A Skill Thats More Important For Teens To Learn Today, Than Previously
Way To Remove Hair
Name An Animal That You See More Of In The City.
Name A Place Where People 50 Years Ago Dressed To Go, But People Today Dress Casually For
Name Something Kids Might Collect From The Beach
Name A prize You May Win From A Carnival Game.
Name Something Drivers Often Do If They Spot A Police Car Up Ahead
We Asked 100 Single People: Who In Your Life Gives You The Most Pressure To Settle Down and Marry?
Name A Form Of Communication That Few People Use Anymore.
Name A Profession That Has To Worry About Getting Sued
Name Something You Need To Eat Before It Melts.
Something You Fold
Name Bad Reason For Picking A College
Name Something That A Demanding Bride May Ask Her Maid-Of_Honor To do That Could End Their Friendship.
Name A Profession Where You Might Have A Dog For A Sidekick
If You Live In The Country, Name A Type Of Lights That You Dont See At Night.
Name Something You Might Add Milk To In The Morning.
Name Something Children Wear, But Adults Dont
What Do Some People Do Immediately After Breaking Up, And Others Take Time To Do?
Name Something Considerate That People Often Do For You In An Elevator
Tell Me Something You Might Scrape Off Bottom Shoes
Other Than Books, What You Check Out At Library
Tell Me Something That You Never Intend To Buy At The Store But Always End Up With
Name A Decoration You Might Find Inside A Mexican Restaurant
What Might You See Inside A Bag Of Chips That Would Make You Stop Eating Them?
Name Something Tourists Point Up At
Something On Top Of Most Birthday Cakes
Name Something You Wear At The Beach, But Not At Grocery
Name A Crime That Some People Probably Commit Every Day.
Name Something That Starts With L, That Everyone Wants
Name Something A Grown Woman Might Lie About, But A Young Girl Wouldnt
Who In Your Life Is Most Likely To Brad About You?
Tell Me Something You Do While Trying On Shoes To See If They Fit
We Asked 100 Wives: Name A Place Where You Wouldnt Want Your Husband To Go With His Buddies.
Name A Drink Usually Associated With Christmas
Name Something Tha Can Be Pumped
Name Something Some Women Wear Too Much Of
Other Than Illness, Name An Acceptable Excuse For Missing Work.
Name A Phrase That Often Appears In ChildrenS Stories
What Do People Say At Halloween That Would Be Inappropriate To Hear At Christmas?
Name Something A Motorcycle Has That A Bicycle Doesnt
Person Young Boys Have A Crush On
Name A Flavor Kids Toothpaste Come In, But Adults Doesnt
Name Something Nice You Get Sick Of Saying During The Holidays
Name A Place Where People Wear Very Little Clothing During The Winter
On A Resume, What Might A Person Claim They Can Do Quickly?
Name Something That Parent Of A Baby Is Constantly Listening For
Other Than Boxing, Name A Sport In Which Youre Likely To See Athletes Fighting
Something People Design For A Living
Something You Get Free At A Casino
Name A Reason You Wouldnt Want To Live Next Door To A Movie Star
Name The Object That Has The Most Germs In Home
What Might You Ask To Borrow From Someone At The Laundromat?
Which Festive Holiday Was More Fun When You Were A Kid?
What Would You Be Surprised To Hear That A Married Couple Does Separately?
Name Something Thats Not Allowed In Some Hotels.
Name Something That Might Happen If You Eat While Driving.
If Adults Trick Or Treated, What Might They Request Instead Of Candy?
Name A Word Or Phrase Used For Cooking On The Grill
Which TV Characters Might You Also See Disneyland
Name Something People Bet On
What In Your House Would You Most Be Upset To Find Out Your Dog Chewed Up
Name A Character Whos Known For Almost Ruining Christmas.
Name A City Where Youd Hate The Long Commute To Work.
Name A Place Where It Might Be Romantic To Get Stranded With Your Partner
Name A Good Gift For Someone Who Is Always Late.
Why Might A Family Move Into A Bigger House?
Other Than Movie Tickets, Name Something A Crowded Movie Theatre Might Run Out Of.
Name Something You Should Probably Book Ahead Of Time If Youre Going On Vacation.
Name A Job In Which An Attractive Person Probably Makes Better Tips.
Name A Prop used By Tap Dancers
Name A Place That While On Vacation Might Be Difficult To Find A Bathroom
If You Drew Homer Simpsons Name In A Secret Santa Exchange, What Would You Buy Him?
Structure Named For Dead People
Name Something You Do To An Item Before Giving It As A Gift
Name A Number Thats Associated With Being Lucky Or Unlucky
Something You Use To Shave That Can Be Replaced At A Drug Store.
Time When You Exchange Gifts
Name The Most Used Piece Of Furniture In A House.
Something You Wish Couples Wouldnt Do In Public
What one thing about a vacation costs the most money?
What did service station attendants once do when you bought gas?
What holiday, other than Christmas, makes the post office busy?
Name something, besides yourself, that you wash:
Past or present, name your favorite television lawyer:
Name something you might see at a grocery check out counter:
Name something you need a lot of if you have a large family:
Name something you own that probably has worn out batteries in it:
Name something you find in a baby nursery:
Name something you might find under your bed when you clean:
Name something that's disastrous for crops:
Name something women use to hold their hair in place:
Name something that keeps kids indoors:
Name something that people shorten:
Name something people pat their pockets to find:
Name something people wear for protection:
Name something that a bank uses for security against crime:
Name something that has roots:
Name something associated with Adam & Eve:
Name something Michael Jackson wears:
Name something people buy with the future in mind:
Name someone or something that has wings:
Name someone from the Bible whose name starts with the letter "M":
Name an expense that's likely to skyrocket with a teen in the house:
Name a sport a lot of people bet on:
Name a sport in which men can play on the same team with women:
Name a way to stay awake when you're dead tired:
Name a source of energy people used before oil:
Name a kind of store you can find, even in the smallest town:
Name a place where kids must be reminded to mind their manners:
Name a kind of key teenagers have:
Name a kind of place that might have an information booth:
Name a kind of building that has many beds in it:
Name a kind of juice you'd find in a tropical fruit punch:
Name a breed of dog you can only describe as annoying:
Name a hobby that could kill you:
Give me another word for "nonsense"
What's the most important quality an employee can have?
If you lost your sense of smell, what smell would you miss most?
What single thing frightens small children the most?
What do many new husbands promise they'll get their wives "someday"
Tell me a type of place that has uniformed guards:
Name something you've bought that's made you the happiest:
Tell me a noise that would make you call the police:
Name something you'd find on a person's arm:
Name something you loved to sit on when you were a small child:
Name something with an adhesive on it:
Name something you can now buy unsalted:
Name something that's hidden that kids try to find:
Name something that you would see around a fireplace:
Name something that you often see on a fireplace mantel:
Name something that looks better on young girls than older women:
Name something that gives off heat:
Name something specific that you file:
Name something specific you might hide:
Name something accidentally gets stuck on the roof:
Name something pirates are famous for:
Name something specific on a car that can be adjusted:
Name something people buy that comes in "stick" form:
Name something most people have more of than they really need:
Name something padded:
Name something a wife asks her husband to pick up on the way home:
Name something important you keep in your glove compartment:
Name something imported from Germany:
Name an occupation kids think is heroic:
Name someone that people have to hire if they decide to build a house:
Name a place where you see adults carrying sleeping children:
Name a sport with rowdy spectators:
Name a kind of tube:
Name a musical instrument played at weddings:
Name a food that leaves you with a couple of days of leftovers:
Name a job that requires using the telephone a lot:
Besides balls, name something a juggler might juggle:
Which world city would you like to win a trip to?
Who is the best known person alive today?
What's the first thing making noise in the morning besides your alarm?
Tell me something you see in front of schools:
What one convenience do you think you'd miss most on a camping trip?
Past or present, name a famous artist:
Name the coldest room in the house:
Name the one thing you want out of life more than any other:
Name something your house has three of:
Name something you're afraid of that you were afraid of as a kid:
Name something you might buy that is almost always white:
Name something you have checked before buying a house:
Name something you eat with peanut butter:
Name something you do every day of your life:
Name something you eat by the slice:
Name something that's difficult to do on a turbulent air flight:
Name something women have to compete with for their husband's attention:
Name something that spins around:
Name something that there never seems to be enough of at your house:
Name something that people keep spares of:
Name something that sisters almost always fight over:
Name something that might be ruined if it had a scratch on it:
Name something that people spread:
Name something that gets in your eyes and stings them:
Name something that kids do when they skip school:
Name something that a picky girl always finds wrong with her date:
Name something that doesn't stay clean for long after wash it:
Name something specific which people clean for a living:
Name something that almost everyone is born with a natural fear of:
Name something specific that's hard to keep clean:
Name something people use to carry water:
Name something personal of yours that you deliberately burn:
Name something people can inherit genetically from their parents:
Name something people often say to each other but really don't mean:
Name something people buy once they get a swimming pool:
Name something measured by the spoonful:
Name something of yours that costs a lot of money to keep looking good:
Name something little girls pretend to be:
Name something little boys pretend to be:
Name something in the house men use more than women use:
Name something in the house that is very difficult to move:
Name something associated with Scotland:
Name something in a hospital that's always cold:
Name something a woman keeps by her bed:
Name something a man owns that he hates other people to play with:
Name one thing you've always dreamed of owning:
Name something a bride always gets several of at a shower:
Name an animal seen in Mexico:
Name a stationery item people sneak home from the office:
Name a subject you took in school and never used again:
Name a section of the Sunday paper that you hardly ever read:
Name a sport that requires a net:
Name a quiet animal:
Name a place you see more kids than adults:
Name a place where you would see lots of flowers:
Name a place where you'd go through a turnstile:
Name a place in front of which people double park for a minute:
Name a place in a big city where people fight over taxis:
Name a piece of equipment you'd find in any office:
Name a mountain chain:
Name a physical characteristic of the Frankenstein monster:
Name a make of car no longer manufactured:
Name a major league football or baseball team named after an animal:
Name a letter of the alphabet, other than C, that sounds like a word:
Name a kind of net:
Name a kind of person who might use a megaphone:
Name a kind of door:
Name a game that kids have played for generations:
Name a holiday that ends in the word "day":
Name a fruit you might buy and let ripen at home:
Name a food you can smell when it's cooking:
Name a food you buy more than one of at a time:
Name a food you can cook just as well a most restaurants:
Name a famous Alan:
Name a food recognizable by its odor:
Name a country that's an island or islands:
Name a "blonde bombshell" of today:
Name a cereal that was around when you were a kid & is still around today:
Give me a word you might hear on the golf course:
Besides clothing, name something people wear every day:
Give me a word or phrase containing the word "chip":
Besides a clock or a watch, what in your home displays the time?
Name something teens do to butter their parents up before asking for a favor?
Name something you dont discuss with your mom because shes too opinionated.
Name a place where a mom might go when she says I need peace and quiet.
Name something parents do for their children long after the children could do it themselves.
Name something parents do to try and make a baby laugh.
Name something a teen might need their parents permission to do before theyre 18.
Name something kids hope to someday have just like their parents.
Name something a father and son might spend the day doing together.
Name a big expense that some parents plan for years in advance.
Name something that a child from a large family never has to herself.
Name something new parents might be afraid to do for the first time.
Name something kids pick up from school.
What might a new parent wish their baby would learn to do quickly to make life easier?
We asked 100 moms: On a scale from 1-10 how much have you become like your own Mom with age?
Name something kids are less afraid of than adults.
Name something that an overprotective parent might forbid their teen from doing.
After their parents say no name something kids do to get what they want.
Name something that even identical twins dont have in common.
Name something a kid might have to do before hes allowed to watch TV.
Name something a child asks for just to delay his bedtime.
Name something a family does when spending quality time together.
Name something teenagers pretend not to hear their parents say.
Name something a grandmother might want her grandkids to learn.
What job might a mom be asking of her husband when she passes the baby and says your turn?
In a crowded house name something specific that people line up to use.
Name a game that families play on road trips.
Name something a teen might get in trouble for doing in the family photo.
Name an invention that has made parents jobs much easier.
What might a child bring to summer camp in case they get homesick?
Name a place where kids are told to hold their parents hand.
Name something kids do just to get their parents attention.
At the dinner table what food do kids most like to play with?
Name something that happens to a grown-up that makes them appreciate their parents more.
Tell me something you see strapped on a familys car when theyre going on vacation.
Name a piece of kids playground equipment that parents would probably hurt themselves using.
Name something you really only need one of but most households have more.
Name something a teen might cover up so her parents dont see it.
When kids ask where babies come from name an answer that parents give.
Name something teens are more likely to do to their appearance than their parents are.
Name something specific you hope your kids do when theyre guests at someone elses house.
Name a place that kids beg their parents to take them.
Name something you dreaded talking to your parents about as a teen and still do.
Name a expense thats much bigger if you have kids.
Name something that a couple often does once the kids have all moved out.
Name something that parents are always telling their kids to clean.
Name a sign of their child growing up that parents may have a hard time accepting.
Name something around the house that your family members use the last of and dont replace.
After the bills have been paid name something families do with the money left over.
Tell me a game that kids have an advantage in over their parents.
Name a food that families with kids always have on hand.
Name something that parents wont let their kids skip.
We asked 100 parents: What was the hardest change to make when you had kids?
Name something a parent tells their teen I never did at your age.
Name something your mother says that you dont do enough.
Name the last place youd want to be when your child has a tantrum.
Name a childs toy that a dad might wish he had.
Name a chore that a kid from a farm family might do.
Name a place thats meant for kids but parents love it too.
Name someone a child wants to grow up and be like.
Name something that siblings accuse one another of hogging.
Name something many parents want their kids home at a certain time for.
Name something kids do on a Saturday morning that parents wish they could spend the morning doing.
Name something a new parent tries to do while the baby is napping.
Name something parents ask their children to do more quietly.
Name something that parents help their children build.
Tell me someone who parents tell their kids to have respect for. (More specific than elders)
Name something a college student might hide before his parents came to visit.
Name something specific that teenagers do that makes their parents very angry.
Other than their bedroom name something a teenager has that might be messy.
Name something you did as a teen that youve still never told your parents about.
Which job would a boy love for his dad to have on take-your-child-to-work day?
Tell me something that kids hate to have taken away from them. Be specific.
Name something a child does to prove to his parents hes too sick for school.
At what age are children the most rebellious?
Name someone in a kids life who lets them get away with things their parent wouldnt.
Past or present, name a famous TV dad.
Name something kids must be forced to do but their parents love to do.
Name a time when even a grown-up wants their mom.
Name a Christmas activity that adults get just as excited about as their kids do.
Name something moms warn their children will make them catch a cold.
Tell me the age at which a kid no longer wants to be seen with his parents.
We asked 100 parents: Name something your kids are always asking for.
Name something that adults might bribe a child into doing.
Name a word that moms say to their children many times a day.
Name a place where kids ask their parents how much longer?
Other than your parents who gave you dating advice when you were a teen?
What occupation might a dad have that would make boys afraid to date his daughter?
Name something a mom would be really embarrassed to have her child do in front of grandma.
Name an animal kids always want for a pet and parents always say no to.
Name an object that kids need parental guidance to use.
Name something a parent tells their child not to touch.
Tell me someone whos allowed into the delivery room when a woman is having a baby.
Name something kids are told will happen if they eat all their vegetables.
What would the worlds Least Romantic Husband give to his wife for Valentines Day?
Name a job that you hire a professional to do but your parents probably didnt.
If you had a robot to do just one job around the house which chore would it be?
Name something dads do today that they didnt do 50 years ago.
Name something many dads teach their children how to do.
Name a meal that even dad might wear a bib to eat.
Name a reason youd suspect that your babysitter was actually Mary Poppins.
Name something babies have that their parents think is adorable.
Name something your teenager would say is their most prized possession.
What is the first word many babies say?
Other than her kids name something a woman might blame her gray hair on.
Name an event that wives get more excited about than their husbands.
Name something that many families have exactly two of.
Instead of a person name something a child talks to.
Name something many parents want their children to learn at a young age.
Name something a parent would not want their kid doing in his school picture.
Name something your kids might never do if they werent forced.
Name something an experienced parent does automatically when they pick up a crying baby.
Name a place children are sent when they misbehave.
Name something specific that moms are always telling their kids to put on.
Name something that moms say will cure any ailment.
We asked 100 wives: Name something in the house that your husband could go a month without washing.
We asked 100 husbands: Name a place you go where your wife does most of the talking.
Name something teens often do as their first job.
Name something an expectant mother might have a hard time doing in her last month of pregnancy.
Tell me something a mom might hear that tells her the kids are up to no good?
Name an announcement that parents cant wait to hear their grown children make.
Other than their kids name something new that a person might baby.
Name something specific a child does that causes his mom to give the look.
Name something that a girl with lots of brothers might know more about.
When dad has control of the TV remote whats always on TV?
Tell me something that kids brag about regarding their fathers.
Name a specific chore kids do in order to get an allowance.
Name something dad refuses to use when lost on a road trip.
Name something that a woman does more gracefully than her husband.
Name something that most children can operate better than their parents.
Name something grandmothers always seem to keep a supply of in their purses.
Name something your kids get excited about long before it happens.
Name something that changes as kids get older.
Name a place that a college student would be most surprised to see their grandparent.
What might a teen ask to borrow from his parents on a Friday night?
Name a household supply that you never want to run out of.
What would a college kid do right before his parents come to visit?
Name an activity kids usually do with their grandparents rather than parents.
Name something your parents still dont seem to understand about you as an adult.
Name something that your kids might do before asking you for a favor.
Name something most kids know about Thanksgiving.
Name something adults always ask kids about school.
What might a mobster do that gets him kicked out of his mob family?
Name something parents get tired of reminding their kids to do.
What might a teenager do to cause their parents to forbid them from using the family car?
What are some things that parents do to care for a sick child?
Name something parents teach their kids in order to keep them safe.
Name a kids game that an over-caffeinated teacher might be tempted to join at recess.
Name something both adults and kids do to get into trouble with their parents.
Name a celebrity family you would like to see play the Feud.
Name something kids want to do over and over when they first learn it.
Name something parents say is too short.
Name something that kids play in but an adult would not.
Name something Mom doesnt let her kids do that Grandma might do.
Tell me something that a teenager still needs from their parents.
Name a way that parents pose their babies in portraits that they dont pose their older kids.
Name a gift kids hate to get.
Name a way that you can tell a kids bedroom apart from their parents room.
Name a food that kids want their own of even if they cant finish the whole thing.
Name something you see college kids posing with in photos.
Name something parents avoid talking to their kids about until they are older.
Which subject would most elementary school kids say is their favorite?
Name something youd see in someones shopping cart that would tell you that theyre a parent.
Name something a stay-at-home parent does while the kids are napping.
Name a rule that parents might have when their teenager starts dating.
Name something kids would demand instead of paychecks if an office hired them.
Name something parents choose for their kids when theyre little but not when theyre adults.
Name a household chore that you would want a robot to do.
What might the kids be doing in the backseat to make mom say shes turning the car around?
Name something a teen can do for longer amounts of time than their parents.
Name a kids Halloween costume that you can make at the very last minute.
Name something that kids who are home schooled would have a hard time getting used to in public school.
Name something that parents point out to their toddlers while on a walk.
Name a specific place where parents go to get away from the kids for a while.
Name something parents teach their children how to save.
Name something kids might collect from the sand on a beach.
Name something kids must be forced to do that adults love doing.
Name something that might keep new parents awake at night.
Name somewhere that parents cant wait for their kids to go.
Name a place where kids go after school.
What type of vehicle might a family with lots of children want to own?
What toys for kids do adults like to play with during the holidays?
Name something most parents cant wait until their child starts doing on his or her own.
Name an adult that a child might know by name other than parents or relatives.
Name something kids try to get as much of as their parents will let them have.
Name something that nervous parents do in the passenger seat while their teen is learning to drive.
Name a reason a parent might not get their teenager a cell phone.
Name something a parent tells their kid I never did at your age.
Name something parents ask the babysitter when they call to check in.
Name something kids might use to help them count.
Name a specific type of family function that your partner doesnt always want to attend.
Name something that kids count in order to pass time on a car trip.
Name something kids are afraid of on Halloween.
Name something that parents would ask their kids to wear in cold weather.
Name something of dads that kids arent allowed to use.
Name something you wish your kids would do without having to be told twice.
Name something your parents would look for in your date.
Name someone who lets a kid get away with things that his parents never would.
Name a household chore that you feel like youre contantly doing.
Name something that happens that interrupts a couples alone time at night after having kids.
Name a place where adults go to relax while kids go to play.
What do parents most like to receive from their children?
Name a holiday thats more fun for adults than kids.
Name an activity kids do in the car that they can also do at home.
Name something that might be taught in a new parents course.
Name a way that your friends would begin greeting you if you became a member of the royal family.
Name something a parent might grill their daughters date about.
Name something a parent might do to help their baby fall asleep.
Name something that kids dont want to be teased about wearing.
Tell me a dance that a guy might do at his prom if his grandparents taught him how to dance.
Name something most kids put in their mouths although it doesnt taste good.
Name an activity people only do when they have kids.
Name one thing that parents wish that their newborn babies would be able to do right away.
Name an occupation in which youd have to get used to kids being afraid of you.
Name something kids ask for that moms have a hard time saying no to.
What type of healthy lunchbox foods would kids most want to trade for junk food?
Name something you can do to fish to help picky eaters like it.
Name something new parents have to get used to.
Name something kids look forward to the most in the winter.
Name something that kids can use in a pool to help them float.
Name the top movies Billy Crystal is best known for.
What are the most popular Gluten Free foods?
Name something teens do to butter their parents up before asking for a favor.
Name the top things children tend to lie about.
What are the most popular after-school snacks for kids?
Name forms of discipline that are no longer acceptable today.
What are common games to play at a family reunion?
Name common gift kids receive when their Grandparents visit.
What are common rules babysitters break?
What are common nicknames for a grandmother?
Name something a teen girl might ask her mom to stay out of.
Tell me the age that most people want to live until.
Which of the 7 Dwarfs would be the most annoying coworker?
Name an activity that you associate with daredevils.
Name something thats hard to find and even harder to keep.
Name something people sometimes bang on when its not working.
Name something a spy hides behind while on a stakeout.
Name an instance when you should greet someone with a handshake instead of a hug.
When traveling in a foreign country name something youd hate to forget the word for.
Other than displays of affection name something you wish couples wouldnt do in public.
Name something that a person has a harder time remembering as they get old.
What would a high school kid say a prayer before doing?
Which occupation would you expect a guy named Poindexter to have?
Name something you do to let party guests know that its time to go.
Name an occupation that would cause Pinocchios nose to grow constantly.
Name a place where you might end up dancing with a stranger.
Name a popular tattoo that youd be shocked to see on a tough mob boss.
What would you hate to learn that you did after a couple of drinks at the office party?
Name something that action movie stars always jump off of.
Name a place on the body that women tattoo but men usually dont.
If you could be fearless for one day name the first thing youd do.
Name a phone number that many people have on speed dial.
What do you do when someone says hi but youre sure youve never met them?
At a concert what might a woman wave at her favorite rockstar?
Name something in your house that might get broken during a wild party.
Where do many kids think that babies come from?
Name something youd get a dirty look for doing in the movie theater.
Name a type of vehicle that youd hate to have to parallel park.
Name something people use an excuse to get out of.
Name something you hope that youre still doing when youre 80.
Name a place where the average person wouldnt last a day.
Name a place where itd be in bad taste to hit on someone.
Name a childhood fear that many people never outgrow.
Name a public place where only the worlds least romantic guy would propose.
Name something on her body that a woman might try to cover up.
If you lived in soap opera land name something that would happen a lot more often.
Name the place where youd most hate to be stood up.
Name something from childhood that people hate to sell or give away.
Name an Olympic event that youd be too terrified to try.
Name something about a person that you might say is smooth.
Name a requirement for someone who wants to be in a boy band.
Tell me something that many people are too shy to do in front of others.
In action movies name something the hero is always trying to get his hands on.
No matter what your age name something that can make you feel like a kid again.
Name something a criminal might do to avoid being recognized in a police line-up.
Name something the Jetsons had that youd love to have in your lifetime.
Name something people lose on a roller coaster.
Name something that gets checked out.
Name something a teen boy does to make himself look older.
Name an occupation in which youre either loved or hated.
Name something people dont want to be caught in.
At a nightclub what would you hate to be doing when the music suddenly stopped?
Name something you should read the manual before using but most people dont.
Name a way that you can identify the school bully.
Name a public place where its OK to scream.
Even as an adult name something youve asked for your dads advice on.
Name another word for a bar that a cowboy might use.
Name something a flight attendant points out during the safety speech.
Where might you be if someone asks room for one more?
If you have an unexpected knock on the door name one thing you do before answering.
Name something James Bond would never leave home without.
Name something a man says hes great at when hes actually just OK.
Name something people do while watching their favorite band.
If you owned 101 dalmatians tell me something youd need to buy 101 of.
In a crowded house name something specific that people have to line up to use.
Name an occupation in which youd get lousy tips if you werent friendly.
Name a type of ticket stub that you might keep for sentimental reasons.
Name an instance where two macho men might hug one another.
Name something that a person with good luck has probably had happen to them.
Name a reason a person might wear a disguise.
When someone gets a case of the giggles name something they blame it on.
If Santa got the flu on Christmas Eve who might he ask to fill in for him?
Name something only a vampire would love an endless supply of.
Name a specific part of your body that you smack out of surprise.
When a TV show actor is fired what often happens to their character?
Name a reason an actor would refuse a role.
Besides the bed name something you and your partner usually stick to your own sides of.
Name something that you can tell is fake in a cheesy movie.
Name a reason youd avoid going to a certain restaurant even if their food is good.
Name something specific Captain Hook might ask for help with when getting dressed.
We asked 100 wives: Name something your husband looks good swinging.
Name something embarrassing that can happen if you laugh too hard.
Name something you see at a party that lets you know youll have a great time.
In public how can you show your partner your love without telling them?
Name the worst month to be 9 months pregnant.
If a woman were looking for love in all the wrong places what would be her first stop?
Name something you regret not doing more of in college.
Name a cartoon character who gets yelled at often.
If you got mad like the Incredible Hulk what part of your day would turn you into a monster?
If a man were intimidated by smart women where would he avoid looking for a date?
Name a type of professional who might overcharge you if you dont know any better.
Name one word that you always see on the covers of celebrity magazines.
Name something that would be hard to do without moving your lips.
Name a type of test that people are nervous to get the results for.
Name something youve ridden on only a handful of times in your life.
Name a place where teenagers would be embarrassed to have their parents show up.
Tell me an excuse that a tough guy might give if he were caught watching a soap opera.
Name something a rookie police officer would be embarrassed to admit he misplaced.
Which scary movie character would be the hardest to turn into a sexy Halloween costume?
Name something that might be described as big and burly.
On a scale from 1-10 how happy do you hope your ex is with their life?
Name an occasion where youve encountered as much drama as in a soap opera.
Name an exercise that no one looks good doing.
Name a hairstyle that might not fit on a passport photo.
Name a part of her clothing that a woman would hate to have break while on a date.
Name something about Big Bird that is different from real birds.
Name something there are seven of.
Name something a college student might do all night instead of sleep.
Name something in life that brings out your competitive streak.
Name a place where you often find money unexpectedly.
Name something that school children need to memorize the words to.
Name something that changes in a before-and-after photo on an infomercial.
We asked 100 wives: Name something you have to tell your husband to put down.
Name something there is too much/ many of on tv.
Name a specific candy thats so sticky it could pull out grandpas dentures.
Name something you should always point out to a friend even though its embarrassing.
Name something a criminal would ditch if the Feds were after him.
Tell me a dream job that you wanted as a kid and still want today.
Tell me the best news youve gotten over the phone.
Which phrase from their wedding vows do people have the hardest time following?
Name something youd re-evaluate about your life after winning the lottery.
Name something that Facebook makes it easier to do.
If Doc were to examine the other 6 Dwarfs who might he suggest a prescription for?
Tell me a word youd use to describe someone who is heartless.
If you were to open Heartbreak Hotel name something youd offer your brokenhearted guests.
Name something thats worth taking a chance on.
Name a public place where even an adult can get lost easily.
If you could pick what you dreamt about what would all of your dreams have a lot of?
Which extra piece of clothing might be worn to a strip poker game to delay taking off your essentials?
If Barbie aged like the rest of us name a way that shed look different now.
Name something of yours that youd like to be nicer than your neighbors.
Name a profession in which its more common for men to have long hair.
They say money isnt everything. Tell me something thats definitely worth more to you than cash.
Name a place where youd hate to be seated near someone with an annoying laugh.
Name something that happens to your body when you get really angry.
Name something that you hold your breath for.
Name something that always makes you feel better when youre lonely.
Name something you dont have to be intelligent to win.
Name something that can be arranged.
If someone says that youve married well what do they mean about your spouse?
Which places do politicians often say are overcrowded?
Tell me an occupation that a guy nicknamed \Butterfingers\ should never take up.
Name something youre better off spending too much money on than too little.
Name something on a car that makes a lot of noise when its in need of repair.
Name something thats bigger on Miss Universe than on Mr. Universe.
Name a talent that its painful to watch an amateur do.
Name a perk of driving Fred Flintstones car instead of yours.
Name something a tall person might say is too short for them.
Name an occupation where youd see a lot of bare-chested men.
If a teen gets his moves from grandpa what dance might he do at the Prom?
Name an instance when a teenager would be reminded to use their head.
Name a number you might lie to your date about.
Name something some people claim to have seen that others are skeptical of.
Name something you swear youre better at when no ones watching.
On a hot day name something a person might do in the nude.
Name a song that has a dance to go with it.
Name a place where kids have a hard time sitting still.
If fairy tales were written in modern times where might a princess meet her Prince Charming?
Name a reason why someone might stay up all night.
Now that phone booths are a thing of the past what might Clark Kent go into to become Superman?
Name someone in your life who youd hate to run into at a nude beach.
Name something that gets removed with tweezers.
While in flight what would you hate to see the pilot doing instead of flying the plane?
Name something you order at a restaurant because you rarely cook it at home.
Name the doctor that people see most often.
Name something that people dont normally pay for in cash.
Name something that can bring back the memory of an old love.
If bulls went on strike name another animal that people would pay to see a matador ride.
Name something SPECIFIC your mom is always sure to give you for Christmas.
Name something a person may be required to wear around their neck.
Name something a woman might wish her husband had more of.
What might you find in a briefcase that would make you think it belonged to a spy?
Name an excuse people give for leaving a boring party early.
Name something everybody has but rich people have nicer ones.
Where is it important to know all the words to a song?
Name something people do to avoid having their photos taken.
Name something you might lose on the dance floor.
Name a famous cartoon animal that you wouldnt want in your house if it was real.
Name an instrument that can sound whiny.
Name something that people like to show off.
Name something men probably lie about most.
Name something a first-time knitter makes.
Name a time when you exchange gifts.
Name a cliche people say about beauty.
Where do many teenagers have their first kiss?
Name something you have a one in a million chance of experiencing.
Name a person who might call you by a childhood nickname even after youve outgrown it.
Name something fake that you might give to the person hitting on you in a bar.
Name something about which people always want to give you their opinion.
Other than a song name something that gets stuck in your head.
Name a sport for which athletes wear special shoes.
Fill in this blank: Ill never forget my first ____.
Name something teens think they understand long before they really do.
Tell me where you store all your spare change.
Name something a person having a midlife crisis might do.
If they were smart name a place that horror movie characters would stay far away from.
Name a day of the year when most people call home.
Name something that people try to squeeze themselves into. Be specific.
Name something you see or hear that reminds you of an ex.
What do you eat that has a hole in the middle?
Name something that would tell you your blind date is British.
Name something that a magician might try to escape from.
Name a profession where youd receive lots of mail from strangers.
Name something a doctor might ask a patient to do during a check-up.
Name a part of the job that a flight attendant must get sick of.
Name something your spouse does to let you know theyre in the mood for love.
What might you wear to a job interview in order to appear smarter?
Name a reason why a fan might be kicked out of a sporting event.
Name something a country western singer sings about but a rapper wouldnt.
Name a reason why a babysitter might swear never to come back.
Name a reason why a child might not want to have a long last name.
Name something that melts.
Name something a superhero wears that most men dont.
Name something a parent tells their kids they should care more about.
Name something you might find a kid buried in.
Besides curtains name something a college student may use to cover their windows.
Name an occupation that should only be done by very smart people.
Name something a germaphobe tries not to touch.
Other than a type of food name a Spanish word that most people know.
Tell me something youd find in your food that would make you send it back.
What accent might an American pretend to have in order to sound sexier?
Name a reason why a kid becomes uncomfortable in their snowsuit.
If animals talked name one that would probably have a really high voice.
What do people pay to have guessed at the carnival?
Which command should a horse understand before you ride it?
If someone didnt trust the bank where might they hide their cash?
Which magic trick would become dangerous if the magician was a phony.
Name something people do when the clock strikes midnight on New Years.
If you got access to a police car whats the first thing youd want to do?
Tell me something on a womans body thats considered prettier when long.
Name something a pregnant woman gets asked about a lot.
What would a bank robber want to have plenty of while making his getaway?
Name an article of clothing that you dont need a dressing room to try on.
If an Elvis impersonator had a rummage sale what would you expect to find there?
Name a place where you get news thats not exactly reliable.
Name an occasion for which you might rehearse a phone call before making it.
Name a sport that parents would worry about their child participating in.
Name something SPECIFIC you would try to hide if you were in a police line-up.
Name a physical feature that makes it obvious two people are related
Name a class offered at gyms now that wasnt offered 20 years ago.
Tell me something a recipe instructs you to do that sounds violent.
Name something you do for regular photos but not while posing for a drivers license.
What weather condition might a meteorologist have trouble pronouncing?
Name a musical instrument that sounds terrible when someones learning to play it.
To stay undercover what might a criminal have thats fake?
Name a reason a model may be told not to smile.
Name a place where youd be mortified if your cell phone rung.
Name a reason why someone might avoid their high school reunion.
Name a food served in an elementary school cafeteria.
Name a command on your remote control that you wish you could use in your daily life.
What can you do to get shown on the Jumbo Screen at a football game?
Tell me a type of public place that always overuses their air conditioning.
Name a character from "The Flintstones".
If you were dead tired, name something you might forget to do before climbing into bed.
Name the second most important person in the Bible.
Name another word for "great".
Name something some people are nervous about getting on.
Name something people do right after they sneeze.
Name something parents sacrifice buying in order to have money for their kid's college education.
Name a food people buy by the bag.
Name something only a compulsively neat person irons.
Give me a word that rhymes with "Pun".
Name something real or fictional, known for their nose.
Name something a small town has less of than a big city.
Name something you associate with Bill Gates.
What do you do for your dog that makes him happiest?
We asked 100 married women: Name something your husband does around the house that scores major points with you.
Name a phrase that ends with the word "mouth".
Name an occupation where you have to wake up early in the morning.
Name something wives try to get by nagging.
Give me another term for "mother".
Namy a type of cheese with a funny name.
Name an Olympic event that has a judge.
Name something that makes people panic.
Name something that comes in threes.
Name something at breakfast that you might have two of.
Name something people postpone doing for as long as possible.
If there were a musical named "Dogs", name a prop they would probably use on stage.
Name something at home that people might trip over.
Name something that people who are afraid of catching colds will refuse to do.
Name a type of ball you would be surprised to see a golfer tee of with.
What weather condition might a meteorologist have trouble pronouncing?
Name a place where you'd be mortified if your cell phone rung.
Name a reason a model may be told not to smile.
To stay undercover, what might a criminal have that's fake?
Name a food served in an elementary school cafeteria.
Name a reason why someone might avoid their high school reunion.
What can you do to get shown on the Jumbo Screen at a football game?
Name a command on your remote control that you wish you could use in your daily life.
Tell me a type of public place that always overuses their air conditioning.
Name something that even identical twins don't have in common.
After their parents say no, name something kids do to get what they want.
Name something a child asks for just to delay his bedtime.
Name something a kid might have to do before he's allowed to watch TV.
Name something teenagers pretend not to hear their parents say.
Name something a family does when spending "quality time" together.
Even as an adult, name something you've asked for your dad's advice on.
Name something kids ask for that moms have a hard time saying no to.
Name something a grandmother might want her grandchildren to learn.
Name a game that families play on road trips.
Name a day of the year when most people call home.
In a crowded house, name something specific that people line up to use.
What job might a mom be asking of her husband when she passes the baby and says "your turn"?
Name an invention that has made parent's jobs much easier.
Name something a teen might get in trouble for doing in the family photo.
Name something a teen can do for longer amounts of time than their parents.
Name a place where kids are told to hold their parent's hand.
What might a child bring to summer camp in case they get homesick?
At the dinner table, what food do kids most like to play with?
Name something kids do just to get their parent's attention.
Name a piece of kid's playground equipment that parents would probably hurt themselves using.
Name something parents teach their kids in order to keep them safe.
Name something of dad's that kids aren't allowed to use.
Tell me something you see strapped on a family's car when they're going on vacation.
When kids ask where babies come from, name an answer that parents give.
Name something a teen might cover up so her parents don't see it.
Name something you really only need one of but most households have more.
Name something specific you hope your kids do when they're guests at someone else's house.
Name something teens are more likely to do to their appearance than their parents are.
Name a place that kids beg their parents to take them.
Name an expense that's much bigger if you have kids.
Name something you dreaded talking to your parents about as a teen and still do.
Name a sign of their child growing up that parents may have a hard time accepting.
Name something that parents are always telling their kids to clean.
Name something that a couple often does once the kids have all moved out.
Tell me a game that kids have an advantage in over their parents.
After the bills have been paid, name something families do with the money left over.
Name something around the house that your family members use the last of and don't replace.
We asked 100 parents: What was the hardest change to make when you had kids?
Name something that parents won't let their kids skip.
Name a food that families with kids always have on hand.
Name something that nervous parents do in the passenger seat while their teen is learning to drive.
Name something your mother says that you don't do enough.
Name something a parent tells their teen "I never did at your age."
Name a child's toy that a dad might wish he had.
Name something a teen girl might ask her mom to stay out of.
Name the last place you'd want to be when your child has a tantrum.
Name a specific place where parents go to get away from the kids for a while.
Name someone a child wants to grow up and be like.
Name a place that's meant for kids but parents love it too.
Name a chore that a kid from a farm family might do.
Name something kids do on a Saturday morning that parents wish they could spend the morning doing.
Name somewhere that parents can't wait for their kids to go.
Name something many parents want their kids home at a certain time for.
Name something a new parent tries to do while the baby is napping.
Name something that parents help their children build.
Name a reason why a babysitter might swear never to come back.
Name something parents ask their children to do more quietly.
Name something a college student might hide before his parents came to visit.
Tell me someone who parents tell their kids to have respect for. (More specific than "elders")
Name something specific that teenagers do that makes their parents very angry.
Tell me something that kids hate to have taken away from them. Be specific.
Which job would a boy love for his dad to have on take-your-child-to-work day?
Name something you did as a teen that you've still never told your parents about.
Other than their bedroom, name something a teenager has that might be messy.
At what age are children the most rebellious?
Name something a child does to prove to his parents he's too sick for school.
Name something kids must be forced to do but their parents love to do.
Past or present, name a famous TV dad.
Name someone in a kid's life who lets them get away with things their parent wouldn't.
Name a time when even a grown-up wants their mom.
Tell me the age at which a kid no longer wants to be seen with his parents.
Name something moms warn their children will make them catch a cold.
Name a Christmas activity that adults get just as excited about as their kids do.
Name something that adults might bribe a child into doing.
We asked 100 parents: Name something your kids are always asking for.
What do parents most like to receive from their children?
Other than your parents who gave you dating advice when you were a teen?
Name a place where kids ask their parents "how much longer?"
Name a word that moms say to their children many times a day.
Name something a mother would be really embarrassed to have her child do in front of grandma.
What occupation might a dad have that would make boys afraid to date his daughter?
Name something a parent tells their child not to touch.
Name an object that kids need parental guidance to use.
Name an animal kids always want for a pet and parents always say no to.
Name something kids are told will happen if they eat all their vegetables.
Tell me someone who's allowed into the delivery room when a woman is having a baby.
Name a job that you hire a professional to do but your parents probably didn't.
What would the world's least romantic husband give to his wife for Valentine's Day?
After how many days do your in-laws wear out their welcome?
Name a language that you often see restaurant menus written in.
Name something a customer might do to annoy a waitress.
Name something you would hate to find under your bed.
Name something people do while riding a rollercoaster.
Name something people like doing when listening to music.
Name something you get on from time to time.
Name something a man pulls up.
Name something some people seem to do non-stop.
Name something you only want to do once.
Name a celebrity who probably has their plastic surgeon on speed dial.
Name something drastic you might do to get ready for your high school reunion.
Name an annoying animal you wish Noah would have left off the ark.
Name a phrase that starts with "Follow the ____".
Name something that grows very fast.
We asked 100 women: Name an occupation you've dreamed of trying, but probably never will.
Name a pet you have to keep in cage.
Tell me a slang word or phrase used to refer to husbands.
Name something you wish you had bought stock in.
Name a city that doesn't follow trends, it sets them.
Name a reason it might hurt to smile.
Name an occupation where you never want to hear them say, "uh oh".
Name something their children do which parents brag about.
Name something that gives men a feeling of power.
Name a type of person that carries a sword.
Give me a word or phrase that begins with "heart".
Name something people might lie about at their high school reunion.
Name something you do when your toilet overflows.
Name something you might do on your first week of work, that would make it your last week of work.
Name a reason you might not leave your house all day.
Name someone who spends a lot of time in church.
Tell me the time of day when most people eat breakfast.
Name something you failed miserably at the first time you tried it.
Name something you'd do at a ski resort if you had a broken leg.
Name something that can be framed.
Besides your foot name a part of the body that occasionally falls asleep.
Name a noise that people can't prevent themselves from making.
Name something a wife doesn't like to see her husband doing on his day off.
Name something that might be missing from your car if you parked it in a bad neighborhood.
If you were a 7 foot tall man, name a question you'd get tired of hearing.
We asked 100 men: Name something you spent your money on for your high school prom.
Name something kids get yelled at for sticking their fingers in.
Name something you should always take if it's offered.
Tell me the age kids stop believing in the tooth fairy.
Name a book that could knock you out if you were hit over the head with it.
Name something people do while they're jogging on a treadmill.
Name a famous person named "Jane".
Besides Archie, name another character from the Archie comics.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "silver".
Name something that "ties you down".
Name something you associate with the word "bug".
Name something people "throw".
Name something that might motivate a man to lose weight.
Name someone Americans think of as one of our "Founding Fathers".
Which of your bills seems to keep going up for no reason at all?
What was the greatest band of the 1990's?
Name something a germ-o-phobe would refuse to do on a date.
Name the easiest household chore.
Name something that spies in movies always carry.
Name something that people time.
Name someone specific you'd be nervous about lying to.
Name the worst kind of shoe to wear in a marathon.
Name someone you feel you know because they're on TV every day.
Name an animal in the park people like to feed.
Name something you would like to lose.
Name an occupation where there's no sitting down on the job.
Name something the planet Earth would be better off with less of.
What sports is the word "slam" used?
Name something you'd hate to discover your house was built on top of.
Name a profession that requires you to speak in front of people.
Name the first sign that you're getting a cold.
If you lost your job, name something you'd stop spending money on.
Name a talent you wish you had.
Name something kids hate to do.
We asked 100 men. What is your pride and joy?
Name something that people post flyers for.
Name a place you might whisper.
Name something you might find under a rock.
Name the place where you do most of your complaining.
Name a place where you're sometimes bothered by the person behind you.
What's the first thing a wife does after learning she's pregnant?
Name a place that's packed in the summer.
Name a bad occupation for someone who is habitually late.
Name something that is considered a citizen's duty.
Name a holiday that's no day off for salespeople.
Name something people will always remember about Farrah Fawcett.
Name a kind of place where you might see a portapotty.
Name a place you don't want your cell phone to start ringing.
Name something people go to the mountains to do.
Name something you might look through a telescope to see.
Name something Miss America is probably really sick of by the end of her reign.
Children have trouble sharing toys. Name something adults have trouble sharing.
Name a movie Keanu Reeves starred in.
Name a country where they love to criticize Americans.
Name an occupation whose members dread rainy days.
Name a kind of food that gets stuck between your teeth.
Name a game played at a kid's party.
Name something a person has for Thanksgiving, if they're all alone.
Name something in your house that's too big to throw at someone you're fighting with.
Name something people try to get out of.
Tell me a prank kids pull on Halloween.
Name someone who has gone from hero to zero.
Give me a specific reason why you wouldn't want to be married to you.
Name something a man might give away so his wife couldn't get it in a divorce.
Name an occasion that Grandparents always show up for.
Name something a little kid might try to flush down the toilet.
Name an occupation where people wear shorts to work.
Name something that heats up when you turn it on.
Tell me something about dolphins.
Name a kind of place where people let their attention wander.
Name something about babies that makes you think twice about becoming a parent.
Name something people get together a "foursome" to do.
Name something you sit on.
Name something a cheerleader has lots of.
Name a holiday that's probably more important to women than men.
Name something you envy about your children.
Name something you color.
In what occupation do you get to meet the most fascinating people?
Give me another word for "cold".
Name something an alien might report that Earth has a lot of.
Name a president that Republicans love.
Name an occupation where people might confess something to you.
Name a holiday when the post office is closed.
Name a reason a boy says he hates wearing braces on his teeth.
Tell me one fact about the Wicked Witch of the West in the Wizard of Oz.
Name a bad occupation for a person who's all thumbs.
Name something people try to get out ot.
Tell me job where you might be working at 4 o'clock in the morning.
Name something a Boy Scout gets a badge for.
Name something that starts with the words, "The Big".
We asked 100 men: What's the greatest gift a man can give a woman?
Name something you feel for in the dark.
Name something that's sometimes red and sometimes green.
Name an occupation where telling lies is all in a day's work.
If your dog won Best in Show, name something he'd do with his trophy.
Name a kind of business where you always see customers losing their temper.
Name something that can ruin dinner.
Based on their personality, what kind of bird would you compare your mate to?
Give me another word for "street".
Name something people do right after they get off a wild roller coaster ride.
Name something specific that people repair for a living.
Name something you'd never accept from a friend if you knew they got it illegally.
Name something vampires are afraid of.
Tell me the age when a kid gets braces.
Name something you're never too old to have your mom do for you.
Name something that people hide.
Name a toy associated with the 50's.
Name a reason why a baby might be cranky.
Name something people say you can never have too many of.
Name something you might "catch up on".
What's the first thing someone does when they arrive in Hawaii?
Name someone you think of when you hear the word "maverick".
In what occupation do you find the hardest working people?
Name something inconsiderate that people do in parking lots.
We asked 100 women: Name a specific part of your car you could identify if you looked under the hood.
Name something you eat or drink that's pink.
Name something a woman wears when she's feeling fat.
Name a place where it seems you're always in the line that isn't moving.
Name something a student might buy that has their school emblem on it.
Name a famous "Johnson".
What kind of high school clubs do you think Bill Gates was in?
Name something women might wear to bed that would really turn a man off.
Name a celebrity who fought the law, but the law won.
Name something you do everyday that the Queen of England has never done.
Name something that can do a lot of damage to a home.
Name something women worry about when throwing a dinner party.
Name a famous woman many people imitate.
When kids complain that they're bored, name something parents tell them to do.
Name a celebrity who doesn't take marriage very seriously.
Name something a student probably would not want to attempt the first day of driving school.
Tell me the age when a dog has had a full life.
We asked 100 women: Name something you look at in a man's apartment to tell if he's clean or dirty.
We asked 100 married women: Name something you might avoid telling your husband that you lost.
Name a place where people are asked to rise.
Past or present, name an Olympic champ you admire.
Name a place you go so often, the people who work there know your name.
Name an occupation well-known athletes turn to when their playing days are over.
Name a classic party game that people never get tired of playing.
When you're staying at a hotel, name a place where you might ask a person to meet you.
Which country has the hardest working people?
Name something a person might get caught in.
Name someone who would speak at a roast for Mother Goose.
Name something that causes traffic jams.
Name something that you let "pile up" when you're feeling lazy.
Name something that bothers airline passengers the most.
Name something you'd hate to call by the wrong name.
Name something cats hate.
Name something you'd hate to hear a house-sitter say happened while you were gone.
Real or not, name someone famous named Jos
We surveyed 100 single women...Tell me something you have that has lasted longer than most of your relationships.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something you'd like to swap with your neighbor.
We surveyed 100 married women...What do moms really want for Mother's Day?
We surveyed 100 women...Name a sport you'd only watch if the players were naked.
If the United States is ever really invaded by aliens, which movie star is best-equipped to protect us?
Name a famous woman you wouldn't want to see wearing a thong.
Name a food you associate with the south.
What at your house would you miss most if it suddenly wasn't there?
Name something a man might lose that would cause him to freak out.
Something that gives you the chills.
Past or present, name a specific ride at Disneyland or Disney World.
What's the first thing you'd do if you were holding the winning lottery ticket?
Name something you've "borrowed" from a hotel room.
Name something you can do to get away from it all without ever leaving the house.
Name a topic of conversation wives bore their husbands with.
Tell me a traffic sign that best describes your love life.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something women can do better than most men.
Name a movie that takes place in space.
Name something you're never too tired to do before going to bed at night.
Name an activity that maight cause a man's toupee to fall off.
Tell me a word women use for a very good-looking guy.
Name an occupation in which there is no room for mistakes.
When a woman gets her hair cut and she hates it, name something she might do to make herself feel better.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something you'd better not interrupt a woman while she's doing it.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something men are good for.
We surveyed 100 married women...Tell me something you'd love your husband to say to you without prompting.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something specific under the car's hood that you can identify.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something you compliment a man on just to feed his ego.
What should you always be on the lookout for when you're driving?
We surveyed 100 married women...Name a famous store you wish your husband owned.
Name one thing your dream house must have.
When you think of a country western music legend, what singer comes to mind?
Name something that starts with the word "public."
Name something that might be described as hot.
Fact or fiction, name a famous James.
Which person from history would people most like to see interviewed by Barbara Walters?
Name something that starts with the word "space."
Besides the United States, name a country you most admire.
Name something that starts with the word "nuclear."
Give me a phrase that uses the words "Out of..."
Tell me something that can be frustrating to use for the very first time.
Name a phrase that starts with the word "turn."
Give me a saying that includes the word "devil."
Past or present, who deserves the title "World's Greatest Athlete"?
Past or present, name a famous dumb blonde who's very smart with her career.
Besides potato chips, name a food you can't eat just one of.
Name something in the house that slobs hardly ever use.
Name a word or phrase that has the word "blind" in it.
Name something people replace even if the old one is still working.
Name a college a good football player would want to go to.
We surveyed 100 men...Which magazine cover would you like to be asked to pose for?
Name something you hit or kick to get it to work.
We surveyed 100 married women...Tell me something your husband does every weekend.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name a place where your husband spends so much time, he might as well live there.
Tell me something you might rent for an hour.
What kind of movies do you rent most?
Name an activity that many people do while half asleep.
Tell me a type of dog that wouldn't make a good Seeing Eye dog.
Name something people don't like to see come to an end.
Give me a sure cure for a hangover.
We surveyed 100 married women...Your husband may not have a girlfriend, but I bet he has a love affair with something. What is it?
Name a job that a man brags his girlfriend has.
Who's got the biggest ego in America?
Give me something you associate with Boston.
Name a bad habit that can make a pretty girl look unattractive.
Name something men and bears have in common.
We surveyed 100 men...Name an interesting subject for conversation.
We surveyed 100 women...Name a beautiful actress whose luck with men is just as bad as yours.
Name something some people can sleep through and others wake up immediately.
Name someone famous for helping the poor.
If women are born to shop, what are men born to do?
We surveyed 100 married women...Tell me one word that always gets a man's attention.
Name something your dog absolutely hates.
Name someone famous to whom you'd love to give a lie detector test.
If voodoo dolls really worked, name a person from your life you'd stick a pin in from time to time.
Tell me the talk show you think has the best guests.
Tell me something you wouldn't want to lose at the beach.
Name something a mother of eight kids needs a lot of.
Name something a hiker hates to discover that he forgot to pack in his backpack.
Name something that starts with the word "pay."
Name something that's big and yellow.
Name one Spanish word everyone knows.
A movie with the word "good" in its title.
Name a fictional character with the word "Old" in their name.
Name something you absolutely hate about being in a hospital.
Name something people usually have less of as they get older.
Tell me something that floats on the water.
Name something many people say a little prayer before doing.
Name a specific reason a child would be ordered to hold still.
Tell me a profession that charges by the hour.
Tell me one fact about Bond. James Bond.
Many people want to be a Hilton. But name another real family you'd rather join.
Tell me one fact about a troll.
Name something you do while driving, even though you know it's wrong.
We surveyed 100 single women...Name something your parents always want to know about the man you're dating.
Name something people do on cruises.
Name something a woman looks forward to that a man dreads.
Name something that these days, even middle-class people can't afford.
Name a phrase that starts with "Two for..."
Name a phrase that starts with the word "drop."
Name a word a dieter thinks about that starts with the letter "C."
Name a way you wish your spouse was more like your dog.
Name something you might catch up on.
Name something people don't like being too lumpy.
Something that requires almost constant maintenance.
Name something guests get hit with on "Jerry Springer."
We surveyed 100 married women...Name someone or something in a circus that best describes your husband in the bedroom.
When in Las Vegas, name something a wife might do while her husband gambles.
Name something drivers spend time looking at with their eyes when they should be on the road.
Name something with the word "band" in it.
Besides a rose, name the best-selling flower at a flower shop.
Name an excuse that a girl gives when she doesn't want to slow dance with a man.
Give me another expression for prison.
Past or present, name a famous Bob.
Name something interviewers always ask Paris Hilton about.
Name something that people say is good for the soul.
Dogs chase cars. What do people chase?
Tell me an announcement you made that startled your parents.
Name something that people buy for themselves that they try to hide as a business expense.
Name something that kids skip.
Name a kind of place where it's especially disturbing to have someone coughing nearby.
Name an action movie star with a foreign accent.
Name something first-time parents are surprised their baby does so much.
Name a public place where you can cry without feeling embarrassed.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something your husband has good taste in.
Name a fantasy job you'd want in the old west.
Name something people smell before they buy it.
Name something you worry about, even on vacation.
Give me the title of a movie Nicole Kidman has been in.
Name something a person might be chasing.
Name an occasion when you know people will say nice things about you.
Name something people fall out of.
Tell me one fact about Angelina Jolie.
Name a rule at a drive-in theater.
Name a carpenter's tool that you hope a surgeon never uses.
Name a four-letter word that's something everyone wants.
Name something you might do on a day you know your boss is not coming to work.
Name a place where some people prefer to sit in the back.
Name something you stand around and wait for because someone else is using it.
Name something people stick their fingers in that they shouldn't.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something that you hope your blind date will have.
Name a place where people always try to squeeze in one more person.
Name something you'd have at a Hawaiian theme party.
If you were told to evacuate your house immediately, what would be the first thing you would grab?
Name the most exciting thing to shop for.
We surveyed 100 men...Tell me a snack that goes well with beer.
Name something that kids get more of from their mom than they get from their dad.
Name something teenagers can do for hours on end.
Name something which the more you have, the more trouble you're likely to get into.
Give me a woman's name that starts with the letter "V."
We surveyed 100 women...Finish this sentence: A man doesn't have a chance with me if he doesn't have a...
Name an excuse a husband gives for not going with his wife to church.
Name something you'd do at work if you really wanted to get fired.
Give me a word that might complete the phrase "The three..."
Name an electronic device some people have with them at all times.
Name the first thing a millionaire might sell if they went broke.
What's something people arrive early for so they can get a good seat?
Tell me an occupation where you have to touch your customers.
Name something women are sensitive being asked about that men aren't.
Name something a woman does for beauty that a man also does.
Name something people hate waiting for.
Tell me a kind of place where it's acceptable to scream.
Name a reason you'd congratulate someone.
Name something Oprah's fans can't wait for her to do.
Give me another word for "throw up."
Name a board game you're never too old to play.
Something people always run out of when having a party.
Name something you don't mind asking a complete stranger for.
Name something department stores don't allow you to do in them.
Besides gifts, name something you buy every Christmas.
If gas gets much more expensive, name something you may have to go without.
Past or present, name a famous diet.
Tell me a war hero who became the president of the United States.
Name a question single women hate to be asked.
Tell me something you might slide down.
Name someone you hate getting bad news from.
Name something that begins with "The real..."
Name something people own that they brag about being really big.
Name something Marilyn Monroe will always be remembered for.
Name something a hospital patient doesn't like seeing a nurse holding.
Name something you associate with Eskimos.
Name something you'd hate to be in when it breaks down.
Tell me something you'd love to be able to hypnotize your children to do.
Name something a scorned woman might do to her ex-boyfriend's car.
Name a complaint people have about city streets.
Name something you should never park in front of.
Name a word or phrase that has the word "sponge" in it.
Name a kind of pool.
Name something a man owns that he might try to bet in a big poker game.
Name something a guy hates giving up in a divorce.
Name an animal that is known for being black and white.
If you were called to take part in an amateur contest, name something you might do.
Tell me one thing that people run out and buy after a natural disaster.
Name something a short person might have difficulty doing with a tall person.
What is the biggest nuisance about camping out?
What is something a pilot would get fired for doing in the cockpit during a flight?
Name a place where people often become regulars.
Tell me an animal that starts with the letter "T."
If the Bush family was on "Family Feud," who would be the best player on the team?
Name something you'd hate to run out of if you lived in a submarine.
Which president's daughter do you think appeared nude in Playboy?
Name a reason why someone might leave a house through a window.
Name something grown men still ask their mommy to do for them.
We surveyed 100 women...What do you do when you discover there's a mouse in the house?
Living or dead, name the most romantic singer.
What do people do at home on a Saturday night if they can't afford to go out?
Name something specific in a home that might have been neglected by a working mom.
Name someplace a teenager complains about having to go.
Name something that you do when you're blue that makes you feel better.
Name a sexy car.
We surveyed 100 men...Give me the name of a famous female sex symbol.
We surveyed 100 men...Name a magazine you always enjoy reading.
We surveyed 100 single men...Name something you own that you hate to have other people playing around with.
Give me an everyday expression that uses the word "dog."
Give me a phrase that begins with the word "cut."
With no time for food shopping, name something a desperate housewife serves for dinner.
Tell me the kind of dancing you think is the hardest.
Give me a word or a phrase beginning with the word "chicken."
We surveyed 100 women...Which occupation has the sexiest men?
If people could have a spare body part, name something you wouldn't mind having an extra one of.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something your wife might be desperate for.
Past or present, name a famous John.
Name a phrase that starts with the word "Make..."
The last time someone told you to hold on tight, what were you doing?
Name something that people swing.
Tell me a kind of place where you can be sure to see parents yelling at their kids.
You never forget how to ride a bike. Name something else you never forget how to do.
Name someone for whom you feel forced to buy a Christmas gift.
Name a magazine a mother would love to see her son on the cover of.
Name something that never works just when you need it the most.
Name a company that everyone wishes they'd bought stock in.
Name something that people develop.
Give me a short phrase containing the word "mind."
We surveyed 100 married men...What's a famous store you hope never gives your wife a credit card?
Name something everyone tries to get out of.
Name something a woman who is dating several men needs a lot of.
Name something people eat that starts with the word "cheese."
Name something that squirts when you least expect it.
We surveyed 100 women...Which women's magazine do you think gives the best fashion advice?
When people talk about "the big one," what do they refer to?
Name something that happens to you when you get very angry.
Name something you can't bear the thought of doing if you have the flu.
Name something that many people do only two or three times in a lifetime.
Real or fictional, name someone whose name starts with "Little" or "L'il."
Name a place you'd hate to be when you receive a call from your cell phone.
Everyone has a favorite song. Name something else everyone has a favorite one of.
We surveyed 100 men...Tell me one household duty you just refuse to perform.
Name something people have a best one of.
Name a food that you can cook as well as it's cooked in most restaurants.
Name something you keep on doing even though you know it's wrong.
Name a city that's famous for music.
We surveyed 100 women...Name an animal some men look like when they dance.
Name something adults take lessons in.
Name an animal that swims.
Name something you'd love to see Paris Hilton's dog do.
Name something that starts with "Out of the..."
Name Hollywood's hottest couple.
Name a celebrity who is hounded by the paparazzi.
Tell me a place where you were so nervous, you made promises to God.
Name something repairmen ruin as often as they fix it.
If you became a billionaire today, name something you'd get rid of tomorrow.
Name something you'd hate to be wearing when unexpected company arrives.
Name something women like to watch men do.
Name a movie that won many Academy Awards.
Name a phrase that starts with "Back to..."
Name something you shouldn't eat before a dental checkup.
Name something you wish you'd been born with.
Name something China is famous for.
Name an animal with only three letters in its name.
Name something women like that starts with the letter "D."
Give me a song with the word "moon" in the title.
Tell me something it would be impossible to do standing up.
Give me a word or phrase that contains the word "belly."
Name something people do when they put on their jeans and they can't get them up all the way.
Name a public place you might hear someone snoring.
Besides another person, tell me something else you've kissed.
Name something of yours that is in terrible condition.
Name a career more women go into than men.
If you didn't have neighbors, name something you might do outside in the nude.
Name something specific you're afraid will happen to you on Friday the 13th.
Describe something people do when they need to sober up in a hurry.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something you do for yourself before a special date with a man.
We surveyed 100 single women...What's something a guy shouldn't ask you on the first date?
Name something specific that people are tempted to shoplift.
Name something that could ruin a shopping trip to the mall.
Name a drink served in its own special glass.
Name something the Christmas spirit makes you feel like doing.
Name someplace a man goes where he wouldn't want his wife to go with him.
Past or present, name a famous person with the last name of Davis.
Name a favor friends do for friends.
Name something that begins with "Hold your..."
Name something of Tarzan's that Jane would get if they divorced.
Name something people aren't allowed to do at the beach but some do anyway.
Name a phrase that starts with the words, "Middle of the..."
Name something you do using one finger only.
Name something people criticize about Prince Charles' new wife, Camilla.
Name something that reminds you of San Francisco.
Real or not, name a famous Bo.
We surveyed 100 men...When it comes to women, name something more important to you than a great bod.
What might be the most famous hotel chain in America?
Name a topic people discuss and hardly ever tell the truth about.
Name something men never remember that women never forget.
Name a kind of repairman who might be more tempted to cheat a woman than he would a man.
Name someone people especially enjoy winning an argument with.
Tell me somewhere people have a TV that you think is ridiculous.
Name a reason you might have to get your picture taken.
If you could miraculously become boss at work, what's the first thing you'd do?
Name something guys like to shoot.
Name something people shoot.
Name something that you eat that has the word "French" in front of it.
Tell me something with the word "Rocky" in it.
We surveyed 100 married women...When your husband isn't home, name a place you can be sure to find him.
Which first lady stated, "I don't think there are any men who are faithful to their wives"?
Tell me a reason someone might move to another state.
Tell me one thing you see in every movie about King Kong.
Name something people drink that starts with the letter "C."
Name something that makes it harder for a mailman to deliver the mail.
Name a famous Johnson.
Name something that some people seem to need more of than other people.
Name a talk show where at least one of the guests always ends up crying.
Name something that people's bodies tell them it's time to do.
Name something you have to watch out for when you're walking down the street.
Name something you might ask the person sitting behind you in a movie theater to stop doing.
Tell me a food that doesn't go well with kissing.
Name a state where 100-degree temperatures are common.
Name something a cow might be doing that might make it a bad time to milk her.
Name something about his appearance that a man checks before he approaches an attractive woman.
Name a place where you try to fall asleep, but somebody usually talks your ear off.
Name something some people don't take off when they go to bed.
Tell me something that reminds you of the fall season.
Past or present, name someone famous whose first name was Harry.
What is it that you might see an "Out of order" sign on that would make you very unhappy?
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something that wouldn't get done if you didn't do it.
Name something that's better to do in the dark.
Name something that people stretch.
Tell me something you'd hate to be doing at home when the fire alarm goes off.
When you get to a party, name something you can't wait to do.
Name something specific you'd hate to find mold on.
Name one word you should never say, even jokingly, when you're at an airport.
Tell me something that looks terrible when it's wet.
Name a bad job for someone who hates kids.
Name one thing about a vacation that costs the most money.
Name someplace a man goes where he sucks in his gut to look better.
Name something that could happen when you don't pay the IRS.
Past or present, name a TV show set in a hospital.
Name something that happens in the royal family that usually makes the news.
Name something a real cowboy might like to be buried with when he dies.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something women are always changing.
We surveyed 100 married women...If you didn't cook for your husband, what would he do?
Name something you hate to see people doing at salad bars.
We surveyed 100 single women...Name an Australian actor you wouldn't mind taking out back.
Name something people have second thoughts about after they decide to do it.
We surveyed 100 married men...Tell me something you're sure a robot could do better than your spouse can.
Name an occupation where a person carries some kind of a bag on the job.
Tell me something you hate to admit you did on a Saturday night.
Besides a regular Sunday, tell me an occasion when you might go to church.
Name a phrase that starts with "Below the...."
Name a phrase that starts with the word "soul."
Name something that, once you learn how to do it, you never forget.
We surveyed 100 married women...When your husband is in the mood for love, what are you in the mood for?
Name the American city you think has the rudest people.
If you dated Simon Cowell from "American Idol," name something he might criticize about you.
We surveyed 100 married people...What is the biggest complaint about sleeping with your spouse?
We surveyed 100 women...Name something you bought because it was guaranteed to turn a man on.
Name an occupation whose members could literally say their job stinks.
We surveyed 100 men...Which do you care most about: sex, money, or sports?
We surveyed 100 men...Which actress has the most kissable lips?
Give me a state that starts with "W."
Name something that can ruin a mailman's day.
Name something you don't like people doing in your car.
What might you be talking about if you used the word "boxers"?
If you received $1,000 too much for an income tax refund, what would you do?
What's something people can get away with if they have a really good lawyer?
Besides Arkansas, tell me a state that begins with the letter "A."
Name a city known for its pizza.
Name a state where you'd expect to find cactus.
What reason do husbands usually give for coming home late?
Name something people serve instead of turkey at Thanksgiving.
What's something a young couple argues about the most in their first year of marriage?
Name a holiday that honors the great American pastime of shopping.
Name some information about your future you wouldn't want to know.
Name a child's activity at which parents show up for moral support.
Which college is the hardest to get into?
Who's usually the winner in a divorce: the husband, the wife, or the lawyer?
What's a dog's worst enemy?
Name something you stuff just as full as you can get it.
Name something parents are always telling children they're lucky to have.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something you wish your husband was an expert at doing.
Give me a phrase that starts with the words, "Off the..."
Name something people remove glasses to do.
Name a kind of place where you're embarrassed when you doze off.
Name something men always complain that women do too slowly.
Name a famous Tommy.
Real or fictional, name someone with "Simon" in their name.
Name a reason people give for not wanting to live in California.
Name a fruit or vegetable used as a beauty aid.
What U.S. state do you think has the most beautiful women?
Tell me something that starts with "Hit the..."
Name something that many women hate doing but they do it anyway.
Name an excuse people give to get out of jury duty.
Name something you might say someone's body is shaped like.
Name something a man hates to hear his wife tell him she wants.
Name something specific that some women wear and some don't.
Tell me a public place that's perfect for people watching.
Name something that's difficult to do on a turbulent air flight.
What would be the worst thing to have stolen from you?
Name something about himself that a man might avoid telling a date.
Name something you've accidentally run over with your lawn mower.
Name an occupation you'd like to have in the family.
Name something people depend on for protection.
Name something some people fear that starts with the letter "S."
Name something people say they're on.
Name something people jump.
Name something you'd hate to be on when it breaks down.
Name the first thing you do at home when returning from a long vacation.
Name something that shakes.
Name a reaction someone might have if they got really scared.
We surveyed 100 married men...Name something of yours you hide so your wife won't use it.
Which celebrity wins the award for most plastic surgeries?
Name a gift that's hard to return.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something you put on to be sexy.
Name something most people don't replace until it dies.
Give me a name that rhymes with "Ray."
When it comes to appearance, name something women only do because men want them to.
Name something you would do to prepare for a game of strip poker.
Name something some people postpone doing for as long as possible.
Something you hear on the news that there's a shortage of.
Name something that most people get more of the older they get.
When mom's away, name something dad serves kids for dinner.
Name something you sometimes forget to do before you hop into bed.
Name something you'd expect to find in the home of a man who thinks he's macho.
Name something children do when they fight that adults also do when they fight.
Pretend you're psychic and tell me whose divorce you think you'll be reading about next year.
Name a state that's too cold for a nudist to live.
Name a reason you might go without TV for a week.
Name something many people plan to do someday but few ever do.
Something people deliver for a living.
Name a kind of place where you hate to be seated next to a screaming baby.
Name something you see in a restaurant that tells you its health standards are below par.
We surveyed 100 women...What do you think is really the best way to a man's heart?
We surveyed 100 men...Name something you've learned the hard way to never criticize a woman about.
Name a way that you can tell your dog is sick.
Name something people buy to prepare for hurricanes.
Name an animal that's easy to imitate in charades.
Name something people go outside to do in their pajamas.
Give me something that you would hate to see when you return to your parked car.
Name a job that involves telling people bad news.
Name something superstitious people think is bad luck.
Name something people take out.
Name an activity you see people doing in their backyard.
Name a hygiene product a man might not use when on a camping trip.
We surveyed 100 married women...Besides yourself, name someone who spends a lot of time with your husband.
Name something a NASCAR driver might do right before a race.
Name something it should be against the law for people to do in cars.
Name a place where kids always complain about having to go.
Name something many people have that's fake.
Name a possession men like to boast about having.
Name an Olympic sport that starts with the letter "S."
Name something a girl might do to her ex-boyfriend's car as revenge.
Name something working women spend more money on than housewives.
Name something you have that you wish worked better.
Name something you do that you don't want to do in a hurry.
Name something teachers threaten to do when a class is misbehaving.
Give me a word or expression that starts with "double."
We surveyed 100 men...Name something some women do way too fast.
We surveyed 100 women...If you wanted to drive your husband crazy, name something of his you might hide.
Name a specific activity that beginners always look funny doing.
Name a magazine that gives people tips on improving their sex life.
Name a state that probably has more cows than people.
Name something you remember doing by yourself for the first time.
Name something that makes a dress sexy.
Name something people roll up.
Name a game little boys play that they don't want girls to join in.
Name something women think about more than men think about.
Something you have that makes you feel more secure.
Name something people always claim theirs is better.
Name a bird that makes a lot of noise.
Name a kind of place where everyone always seems to be in a hurry.
Name a specific place where you'd hate to be when there's a major power failure.
Name something people do even though there's a sign that tells them not to.
Name something people from Texas brag about.
Name something a friend might do in your car that would irritate you.
Name something you have that you hope someday to get rid of.
Name a country with a history of seafaring men.
Name a kind of place you feel better leaving than going.
Tell me something that often doesn't start when it's supposed to.
Name something that some people do clothed that others do in the nude.
Name something you'd expect to see inside a police car.
Name something you don't like to share, even with your spouse.
Name a kind of car that has "speeding ticket" written all over it.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something that tires out your husband.
Name something Hawaii has more of than any other state.
Name a kind of place you'd hate to be hearing people's cell phone go off.
Name something women do a lot of that starts with the letter "C."
Which animal's temperament is closest to your own?
Name something you waited for that was worth the wait.
Name something that ties you down.
Name something a woman fixes.
Name a food or drink that contains the word "hot."
In your opinion, what occupation has the most masculine men?
Name something parents and teens have huge power struggles about.
Name something people put their fingers in their mouth to do.
Name something people get stuck in.
Name the glue that holds most marriages together.
Name something that might get bigger the older a person becomes.
Give me another word for "desire."
Name a famous person, living or dead, whose last name is Collins.
Name a specific food or drink that is most responsible for the size of your belly.
A song might be a hit. Name something else that might be a hit.
Name something men hate losing.
Name a possession of yours they'd never try to bury you with.
Name a public place where you've witnessed couples fighting and making a scene.
Tell me something that a woman might not want to reveal about herself to her date.
Tell me one thing people know about Shrek.
We surveyed 100 11-year-olds...Tell me a prank that kids pull on Halloween.
What's the first thing you want when you don't feel well?
Name a glamorous department store.
Name something in Las Vegas that starts with the letter "C."
Name something you use your index finger for.
Name an occupation where laughing on the job would be considered rude.
Name an animal some people look like when they pucker up for a kiss.
Name something you think there's just too much of on TV.
Name a phrase that begins with the words, "Top of the..."
Name a famous Willie.
Name something a husband does more of if his wife works.
Name a farm animal a turkey might imitate to escape being eaten at Thanksgiving.
Name a famous Dan or Danny.
Name an activity which requires body contact.
Name a country where they seem to hate Americans.
Tell me something parents blame for their kids' bad behavior.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something specific no one can do as well as your mother could.
Name something that people pull up.
Name something that people spread.
Name something that you might find on your car windshield.
Name something that some people are afraid to ride on or in.
Tell me something people crack.
While driving, name something you rubberneck to look at.
Give me a word that rhymes with "sound."
If a millionaire loses his money, name something else he might lose.
Name the first thing you think of doing on a rainy day.
Name a place where people would notice if you came in late.
Name a celebrity who's famous for his or her nose.
After finally moving the couch for the first time in ten years, name something you might find underneath it.
Name a famous musical family.
Name a children's story or rhyme with the word "little" in the title.
When you count your blessings, name a blessing you count.
Name something people keep putting off.
Tell me a man's first name that begins with the letter "W."
Name something that might be hard to start.
Name something you do to help fall asleep on a hot summer night.
Name the place where you do most of your singing.
We surveyed 100 men...Even if it's for just one day, name something Hugh Hefner has that you'd like to have.
Give me a part of your body that never stops growing.
Tell me something most men think they can't live without.
Name something specific about a woman that gives her her own style.
Name a kind of target kids try to hit with snowballs.
Name someplace men go only because women make them.
Name something Jennifer Lopez does at least once a year.
Name something a woman does a lot more if she's pregnant.
Name a famous "Carey."
Name something gorillas do all day.
Name something people are born with a talent for.
Name an action star whose muscles have muscles.
Name something that is soft, warm, and costs lots of money.
Name the person you feel most guilty lying to.
Name a reason why a person might not want to take a date back to their house.
Name something associated with The Three Musketeers.
Name an excuse for lateness that bosses get sick of hearing.
Name something you'd skip if you were late for work.
Name something people do while driving that causes auto accidents.
What is a surefire way to liven up a dull party?
Name a title of royalty that is also a name for a dog.
Give me a word that rhymes with "candy."
Name something in America that's a lot dirtier than it used to be.
Name a place where you get chewed out a lot.
Name something people do on their hands and knees.
When toddlers feed themselves, where does most of the food go?
Name something that expires.
Name a word that rhymes with "tricky."
Name an occupation that begins with the letter "J."
Name a famous Ruth.
Give me a person's name that rhymes with "Larry."
Name something kids do these days instead of reading.
Name something your body has that starts with the letter "L."
Name something you read every day without fail.
Name a way eggs are prepared that could also describe a person.
Name something people ask for when they wake up with a hangover.
Real or fictional, name a famous Simpson.
If an angry dog was chasing you, what would you do?
Name something that people jump into.
Name a kind of place where men sit around and discuss sports.
Name something specific that keeps a race car driver from injury.
Name a part of the body men put cologne on.
Name something a woman might consider trading with her best friend for one day.
We surveyed 100 married men...Name a female celebrity whose figure you wish your wife had.
When you're on the road and you look into the car next to you, what is the driver usually doing?
Name something in your house with four legs.
If you couldn't live in the U.S., what country would you choose to live in?
If you could afford it, name a kind of car you would be driving.
Name something in your house that you use at least once a day.
Name the funniest man working in movies today.
Name something that some men wear and others don't.
We surveyed 100 married women...What do you hate to see your husband holding in his hand?
When you're upset, name a way you let off steam.
Name something you do, on average, once a week.
Name a job so dangerous, you wouldn't want it.
Give me a specific occupation that starts with the letter "P."
Name something men do faster than women do.
Name a place you wouldn't want to be stuck with someone who has a cold.
Name something that's embarrassing to fall asleep while doing.
Name a good outdoor sport for a husband and wife to do together.
Name a magazine you'd hate to have your picture in.
Name something specific that you've lost more than once.
Name something women do together that a man would be embarrassed doing with another guy.
What breed of dog do you think eats the most?
Which American city do you think has the smartest people?
Give me a word that rhymes with "cheat."
Name a charity that has been around for years and years.
Name something that starts with the word "pot."
Name something about cowboys that turns women on.
Name something not so nice that almost every woman has done at least once to a guy.
Give us a question you do not like to be asked.
If you lived in a glass house, name something your neighbors might see you doing in the nude.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something a man can do better than a woman can.
Name something husbands ask their wives advice about.
Name an occupation that's most likely to cheat on taxes.
If you had the money, name something you'd take lessons to learn how to do.
Name something you'd expect to find in Paris Hilton's purse.
Give me something a woman does to prevent her date from kissing her.
Name something people have a hard time keeping.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something that your husband has bad taste in.
Name an animal that was born to run.
Give me a word that begins with the letters "S-U-B."
Name someone who has to work Christmas Eve.
When a naughty kid is sent to his room, name something he does to pass the time.
What's the worst thing that could happen just as company is about to arrive for dinner?
We surveyed 100 11-year-olds...Something your mom is always telling you it's time to do.
Men are something referred to as "weasels." Name another animal men are compared to.
Name a specific form of entertainment you think costs too much.
Name something you wish people wouldn't borrow.
Name something you have in your bed at home that they might not let you keep in a hospital bed.
Name something most women hate having to do on the spur of the moment.
Name an occupation whose people have big egos.
Name a zoo animal that eats more than you do.
Name a sport in which foreign athletes are usually superior to Americans.
Name an occupation whose members must worry about being bitten.
Something women wear to be sexy that's really uncomfortable.
Name someplace where people say they do their best thinking.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something that you'd enjoy about being Mr. Mom.
Who is it that you hope will never get to see the results of of your IQ test?
Name something that might happen if you laugh really, really hard.
When a woman goes on a shopping spree, where does she hide the purchases from her husband?
We surveyed 100 men...Name something men worry about more than women.
Name an occupation in which you might have to face booing crowds.
Name something women don't like to do with their husbands.
Name a way to wake a deep sleeper.
Name something that causes a lot of damage or destruction if it overflows.
Name a country to which American jobs are being outsourced.
Name something a man would hate to run out of just before a date.
Name something in your house you might not want a sumo wrestler using.
Name a job that's hard to get if you have a prison record.
Name a public place where you wish people wouldn't take their dog.
Name a kind of place where people should be on the lookout for robbers.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name something that men like to give instructions on how to do.
Name something a woman should change after her divorce.
Tell me something that makes more noise the older it gets.
Which school subject do you think is most useful in real life?
Name something you might get out of pretending to be sick.
Name a special treat that a husband brings home to his wife who's sick in bed.
Name something dogs do while riding in a car.
Name something belonging to their children that all parents are sometimes tempted to look through.
Name something that mothers pass down to their daughters.
Name something specific that women who have been married a long time must be sick of doing.
Name a part of the body you'd be shocked to hear your grandmother got pierced.
Name something men wear that starts with the letter "S."
We surveyed 100 women...What is it about foreign men that appeals to you most?
When you sneak out of work and get caught, name the reason you give for leaving.
Name something people use to foretell the future.
Name a reason why couples elope.
Which country has the smartest men?
Name a kind of lunchmeat that matches your mate's personality.
Name something people have to empty on a regular basis.
Name something a policeman might get out of his squad car to do.
Name something people seem to love more than people.
Name something a man might charge on a credit card that would make his wife suspect he's cheating on her.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something men talk about that you pretend to be interested in.
Name something specific you make sure to clean before company comes over.
We surveyed 100 11-year-olds...Name a kind of place where you can get in trouble if you laugh.
Name one word that people yell at the end of a performance.
Name a kind of doctor you would be shocked if he asked you to get undressed.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something you might ask a woman that could get you slapped.
Name something a doctor might be holding in his hand.
Name someone a man wouldn't want to show up at his bachelor party.
Name something people expect to see in Beverly Hills.
Name something that was built better in the good old days.
Name something a bartender serves that starts with the letter "M."
When you're on a plane flight, name something you worry the pilot is doing in the cockpit.
Name a city that starts with the letter "D."
Name a public place where wimpy parents let their children act up.
Which TV judge would you hate to have to face in a real courtroom?
Give me an animal that begins with the letter "M."
Name something people buy to help them sleep better.
Something a married man might do in Las Vegas that would get him in trouble.
Name something people often open their mouth to do.
Name someone famous with the first name of Michael.
Name something you should never try to take from a cowboy.
When you break up with someone, name something of theirs you throw away.
Which U.S. president do you think has provided comedians with the best material?
Name a movie Mel Gibson is famous for.
Name a word that rhymes with "song."
Name something a really lazy guy might teach his dog to fetch for him.
Name a place babies have been born when mom can't make it to the hospital in time.
A mugger hopes you have money. Name something he hopes you don't have.
Name something you might find on a fire truck.
Name something every husband wants to come home to.
Name something a teenager might use to cover a hickey on their neck.
Name one of the occupations represented in the disco group The Village People.
Complete this sentence: Most girls would love to go out with a guy who has a great...
Name something a woman will never wear if it's dirty, but a man would.
Name a kind of fish that someone might swallow whole.
Name a sport whose fans attack the athletes.
Name a word that rhymes with "will" that's associated with doctors.
Give me a slang term for someone who's afraid.
In what room of the house is a man most likely to commit murder?
Name an occupation whose members don't seem to smile very much.
Name a singer who's famous for not just a sexy voice, but sexy moves as well.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something you can do better than your mother could.
Men hunt for animals. What do women hunt for?
Name something that some people refrigerate and some people don't.
Name something that gets accidentally run over by a lawn mower.
Name an occupation in which you're always on your feet.
Name something you'd hate to be doing when you hear the call of mother nature.
If you needed to borrow one million dollars, name someone famous who you think might give it to you.
Something people stand in front of a mirror to practice.
Besides the sun and the moon, name something else that rises.
We surveyed 100 married men...What is your wife always after you to learn how to do better?
We surveyed 100 women...Name something men do to their hair that's a real turn-off.
Name a kind of place you're embarrassed when your stomach rumbles.
Name something you usually do every night after dinner.
Name something a person might do on the last day of their job.
Name something that just doesn't taste right without salt.
Name a city people love winning a trip to.
Name something that's foamy.
Name something that gets pumped up.
Name something you bring indoors when it starts raining.
Name something people do once a year that they dread.
Name something people compete with each other for.
Name a wild animal that some people keep as pets.
Name something you might do that would require you to undress.
Name something people fall from.
We surveyed 100 women...What's the first question you ask when you're invited to a party?
Name something you buy that would suddenly bring you a lot of new friends.
What's the best way for a woman to defend herself from a mugger?
Name a piece of sporting equipment that often breaks.
Besides family, name someone rich people might leave money to in their will.
Name someone famous with the last name "Moore."
Name something that people are sometimes said to be under.
Name something you like better when it's bigger.
Name something people let pile up.
Name a modern convenience most teenagers think they couldn't live without.
Name something the whole family does together.
Tell me a female celebrity with a reputation for robbing the cradle.
Name something people find through the classified ads.
Name something a baby does that you don't have to teach him.
Name something people offer to do for a friend who's laid up in bed.
Name something you know about bees.
Name something you associate with postal carriers.
Name something that's sexier when it's bright red.
Name a country in which auto racing is a big sport.
Name something you'd be embarrassed to find has a hole in it.
Which is the most talked-about city in the U.S.A.?
Name something parents might forbid their teenagers to do until their grades improve.
Name something that starts with the word "jelly."
Name something you can tell the guy sitting next to you on the plane forgot to do today.
Name something little kids are often afraid of.
Tell me a bird that starts with the letter "P."
If you could speak any foreign language, which one would you choose?
Name something that is bad sportsmanship in golf.
Name something you think some people do way too fast.
Name something a teenage boy wants his parents to buy for him.
When women get bored, name something they change.
Name a president of the United States who came from humble beginnings.
Name something people change on a regular basis.
Name a place you'd hate to find toenail clippings.
Name something in the house teens use for hours at a time.
Real or fictional, name a famous person named Ralph.
Name something that hits your car and leaves a ding.
Name a government agency that's best known by its abbreviation.
Name something babies do many times a day.
Name something on a job application that people lie about.
Name something specific that wax is used for.
Name something the Janet Jackson doll does.
Name something a soldier should always have with him.
Name something Shaquille O'Neal probably has to bend down to do.
What would you do if someone insulted you?
Name something people check as soon as they wake up.
Name a U.S. city known for its great restaurants.
Name something a mother might include in a care package to her son who's away at college.
Name someone whose job it is to care for people.
Name a famous man named "Sean."
Name something a high school student looks forward to.
Name a holiday when people drink a lot.
Name something people keep hidden in their house.
Name something that has pits.
Name a big city in Texas.
Name something you want to know about a restaurant before you eat there.
Name a reason a person comes home late from work.
Name something to which a lot of kids seem almost addicted.
Name something men love to argue about with other men.
Give me a name that rhymes with "Nora."
Name something that parents can't wait for their children to get out of.
[We may or may not have surveyed 100 11-year-olds...]Name someone that kids tell lies to.
Tell me something you'd better remember to put on in the morning or you won't feel right all day.
Name something that's bright.
Name something that makes a person's nose run.
Name something firefighters wear.
Which is the worst room in the house to hide valuables?
Name something specific you always run out of when you're sick.
Which sin do you think people confess most in confession?
Name something that's usually the job of the first person to get up in the morning.
Name something a woman might put on before she goes to bed.
Name a popular fast food chain.
Name a state whose natural disasters would make you afraid to live there.
Which state has the most lawyers?
Name a kind of chief.
Name something you might be glad only comes once a year.
Name a food people throw at politicians.
Name something a couch potato might have to get off the couch to do.
Name someplace kids get nervous about going to.
Name a piece of boxing gear.
Name something in the house that kids monopolize from their parents.
Name a food that is deep-fried.
Name a fish you're afraid of.
Name a city that has a popular song written about it.
Give me a phrase that begins with the words "Get a..."
Name a way people cook chicken that begins with the letter "B."
Something that some people insure while other people take a chance.
Name an occasion when people might include some cash in a card.
Name something you keep within reach when watching television.
Name something that's described as "precious."
Name a body part that's on a woman and a chicken.
Besides Michael, give me the first name of one of the Jackson family.
Name a movie that starts with the word "Dirty."
Name an occasion when a husband should send his wife flowers.
Name a household chore that is literally a four-letter word.
Name something people do on payday.
Name an animal that people use for transportation.
Give me a vegetable that starts with the letter "B."
Besides milk, name a popular dairy product.
Name an animal with long ears.
Tell me a famous person named "Jamie."
Name any astronaut.
Name a part of the local news broadcast that people specifically watch for.
Name a complaint many women have about their husband's job.
Name something for which people want quick relief.
Name a clothing store teenagers love.
Name something it would be unwise to do at the office Christmas party.
On what day of the week are most banks held up?
Name something that people dunk.
Name something slobs use as a napkin.
Name something religious that is found in many homes.
What animal do you think can be taught the most tricks?
We asked 100 married men...In a word, why did you get married?
In your opinion, what happens when you die?
Name someone with the last name of Boone.
Name something a man traditionally does when proposing marriage.
Name a colorful president.
Name something specific that people use to scare burglars away.
Name something that helps people stay dry.
Tell me a name that might be crossed out of Jennifer Lopez's address book.
Name something people do the day before they start a diet.
Name something you should always check the expiration date on.
Something adults take into the bathroom with them.
Besides swimming, name something people do in a bathing suit.
Name something people associate with Pinocchio.
Name something that always breaks down at the worst possible time.
Name something that has a gutter.
Tell me something parents are always telling their kids to close.
Name something that has a hole in the middle.
Something people do at a scary movie.
Name something you'd never sell even if you were flat broke.
A movie that starred Mel Gibson.
Name a foreign language spoken in many American homes.
Name something that starts with "Mind your..."
Name a U.S. state that you'd consider moving to when you retire.
Name something a woman needs to have before she gets married.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something, late at night, you might ask your husband to do for you.
Name a Disney movie that made you cry.
Tell me something you might have to replace after a divorce.
Name a bad habit you wish you could get rid of by taking a pill.
Name something you hope to have with you if you're ever lost in the wilderness.
Name something you might go without when you're trying to save money.
Name something that has the word "super" in it.
Name something that comes in packs of six or twelve.
Name a food that you hope you've got milk to go with.
We surveyed 100 men...If you wanted to be a ladies' man, name something you would need.
Name something a man would hate to have his wife surprise him with.
We surveyed 100 women...Why might you marry a man you don't really love?
If your cell phone rings while you're at church, who had better be calling?
We surveyed 100 married men...Name something you get every single Valentine's Day.
Who is the best-known person alive today?
Name a type of receipt that a wife might find in her cheating husband's pocket.
Name something you go outside in your bathrobe to do.
Name something that slows down a line at the supermarket.
Name something some people do faster than others.
What's the last thing you did before you left the house this morning?
Real or fictional, tell me someone who has the word "Little" in their name.
Besides Jesus, name a religious figure you would like to ride across the country with in a car.
Name an animal whose name children mispronounce.
Name an occupation in which you'd get to hear a lot of good gossip.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something women do for their little boys that they also do for their husbands.
Name something that you might take from a restaurant.
Name a male actor with gray hair who women consider sexy.
Tell me something that's harder to do backwards than forwards.
Name a celebrity who probably still makes millions a year even though they're six feet under.
Which U.S. city would you be most afraid to live in?
Name something you'd hate to discover had expired.
Name something in your house you have never cleaned under.
Name a fruit that would be almost impossible to stick up your nose.
If diamonds are a girl's best friend, what's a guy's?
Give me a word that rhymes with "bump."
Name a famous Tom.
Name a foreign accent that's pretty easy to imitate.
Name something that can cause a lot of damage to a home.
Tell me a word you would use when describing Abraham Lincoln.
If you were literally in the doghouse for the night, name something you'd like in there with you.
Based on what you've heard or believe, what do you think you'd find in heaven?
Name an animal that likes to stick out its tongue.
Name something that has caused almost everyone to be late for work.
Name something a person with overly large feet might have a hard time doing.
We surveyed 100 men...Tell me something no woman can resist.
Name a real or fictional person with "Dick" in his name.
Name something people are afraid to ride on.
Name an important event you'd go to even if you were sick.
Name something magicians try to escape from.
Name the number one state people want to live in.
Name a movie that contains the word "king."
Name a country known for good-looking men.
Name a famous movie that was all about a dog.
Name an animal you hope never sits on you.
Real or fictional, name a famous Betty.
Name an animal that can kill with its bite.
Name a fat animal.
Name something that teeth do.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something you would rather be than smart.
Name a way people pass the time in prison.
Name the most respected newspaper in America.
Name a subject at school you'd hate to find out a ten-year-old knows more about than you.
Name a flower that's also a girl's name.
Name something men worry about losing.
Name something made for people to put their fingers in.
Name something every person in America should be able to afford.
What would be the worst thing that you could be turned down for?
Name a character in one of Shakespeare's plays.
Name any war.
Name a place people drag themselves to because they think it's good for them.
Name something that a person might have a phobia about.
Name a place you go where you turn your cell phone off.
We surveyed 100 men...Name something of yours that's dirty.
Name a reason why a spouse might end up spending the night on the couch.
Name a famous Matt or Matthew.
Tell me something your dogs get to do that you wish you could do.
What excuse would a kid give their teacher for not turning in their homework?
What are people talking about when they brag they've never had a single one in their lives?
Name something that Texas is famous for.
Besides Richard Karn, name a famous Richard.
Tell me something that's supposed to keep you young.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name a reason you'd sleep in a separate bed.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something specific women think they know more about than men.
We surveyed 100 men...Name an article of clothing you'd like to wear most if you had to dress up like a woman.
Name something inconsiderate people do at the supermarket.
What would be the worst thing to be allergic to?
Name an occupation whose members have to be especially careful with their fingers.
We surveyed 100 college guys...Name a job you'd love to have at the Playboy mansion.
Name a place which most people remember going for the first time.
We surveyed 100 married women...Name a part of your husband's body you think is cute.
Name something people have less of as they get older.
Name a reason parents might not approve of their daughter's boyfriend.
Name something a man might get his tie caught in.
Name a way in which people treat their dogs like humans.
Name a rock star who's older than the president of the United States.
We surveyed 100 married women...If you could hypnotize your husband, name something you would make him do for you.
Of all the talk shows, which one has the funniest host?
Tell me one word women use to describe very attractive men.
Name something the laziest person in the world might put next to their bed so they can roll over and use it.
Tell me something you really didn't want to do, so you pretended you were sick.
Tell me something people do in the woods.
We surveyed 100 married men...When your wife is talking to you, what are you thinking about?
Name something little boys don't like.
Name a food that's sloppy to eat.
Name someone from the Bible whose name begins with the letter "M."
Name something a soldier in the Army might have to go without for a while.
We surveyed 100 women...Name something a good bachelorette party needs.
Name a public place where you might see quarreling lovers make a scene.
Past or present, name a famous couple you knew would have problems.
Name a Christmas song you know most of the words to.
Name something a husband asks his wife to carry in her purse for him.
We surveyed 100 women...What does it take to get your lover in the mood?
Name something on an elephant that's huge.
Name something Madonna will probably still be doing when she's 80.
Name something people get kicked out of.
Name some personal information you don't feel is anyone's business but your own.
Name a strong woman who people love to criticize.
Name something that could embarrass an actor onstage.
Name a movie about a horse.
When going on vacation, what's the worst thing to forget to pack?
We surveyed 100 married men...Name something about your wife you wouldn't dare criticize.
Name something people do during which they hate to be disturbed.
Past or present, name an actress who played one of Charlie's Angels.
Name something that birds do.
Name a famous cartoon dog.
Name a specific part of a skinny dipper that usually doesn't look so skinny.
Name something a teenage boy might borrow from his father without asking.
Name something you've been bitten by.
Name something specfic that people do to calm down after an argument.
Name something new mothers spend most of their time doing.
Name something a department store Santa might hate about his job.
Name a reason why someone might go a whole day without eating.
Name something a really cheap airline might make passengers do for themselves.
Name something associated with New Orleans.
Name something that starts with the word "virgin."
Name a job that teenagers do when they need money.
What do you imagine is the biggest disadvantage to being tall?
Name something that's routinely done to a person when he's arrested.
We surveyed 100 married men...Which of the seven dwarfs describes your wife in bed?
Name something for which Dorothy and her friends asked the Wizard of Oz.
Name something specific a pirate might have hidden in his treasure chest.
Name something a husband does for his wife when he's feeling guilty.
Who is the greatest female tennis player ever?
Name an animal that moves its tail a lot.
Name something students do when they forget to study for a test.
Name any one of Britain's royal family.
Name something you might see a firefighter carry.
What is the most common order a back-seat driver yells to the driver?
Tell me an animal that starts with the letter "H."
Name something babies love to throw.
We surveyed 100 women...Specifically, tell me the sexiest part about Brad Pitt.
Name something you don't want to find in restaurant food.
Name a gift you bring someone who's invited you for dinner.
Name a well-known Frank or Frankie.
We asked 100 women...Name something you'd do with an engagement ring if your fianc? called it off.
Name a book you go to for answers.
Tell me a phrase that begins with the words, "Over the..."
Name a character from the fictional town of Mayberry on "The Andy Griffith Show."
Name something on a car that might break but wouldn't keep you from driving it.
Name a famous outlaw from the old west.
Name something in his house a little kid might think a monster is hiding.
Besides the Rose Bowl, name a bowl game.
Name something you'd like to be hypnotized to stop doing.
Name something people walk out on.
Name something you see in almost every hamster's cage.
Name something an inconsiderate person will hog from others.
Name a reason it's good to be Jennifer Lopez.
Name a place where you have used a lot of excuses.
Name something that rumbles.
Name a specific household chore a bachelor neglects.
Give a word to describe something that is untrue.
Give me a word that starts with the letter "Z."
Name something on your body that moves when you jump around.
Tell me something that has the word "hood" in it.
Name an occupation in which people have a chance to become famous.
Name something specific that people grind.
Name something you look out for when you're driving.
Name something that people get dismissed from.
Name a tradition observed at baseball games.
Name something that whistles.
Name something you own that you talk to as if it were a person.
Name something associated with ancient Egypt.
Name something people do at the airport while waiting for an airplane.
Name something a man owns that he doesn't like his wife to use.
Name an invention that has brought people closer together.
Name a place dogs are known to drink from.
Name something Scotch.
Name something your body tells you it's time to do.
Name something you'd hate to lose at the mall.
Name something people give to others as proof of their love.
Name the thing you like to do most at a party.
Tell me something described as "prime."
Name something that has a face.
Name a specific place where you'd see bunk beds.
Name something a husband usually asks his wife's permission to do.
Name a part of their bodies pregnant women complain about.
Name something that comes in small, medium, and large.
Name a kind of bank that doesn't deal in money.
What do most people look forward to doing on Sunday morning?
Give me a word that rhymes with "spouse."
Name something people buy for the beach that contains the word "beach."
Name a place where you might see Santa before Christmas.
Name a musical instrument that a child prodigy might play.
Tell me a phrase people yell out when somebody knocks on the door.
Name an animal a child dreams about owning.
Name something a millionaire probably has more than one of.
Name a fictional character with two identities.
What do you do when another driver cuts you off in traffic?
If he ran out of money, name something of value a man might bet in a poker game.
Name the college selected by the brightest students.
If you were a baby, tell me a reason you'd cry.
Name an activity people do when it's windy.
Name a reason why a restaurant might refuse service to someone.
Name the coldest month of the year.
Name something people use to sop up a spill.
Name a holiday where you can count on the banks being closed.
Name a powerful bird.
Name something you could always use more of.
Name a place where you might have to pass through a metal detector.
Name one way customers are rude to a waitress.
Name someone famous who never seems to age.
Name an animal people sound like when they blow their nose.
Tell me something you might boil before you eat it.
Name a place where cowboys hang out.
Other than a baby, name something you'd see in a crib.
Name something that happened to Snow White.
Tell me a word that rhymes with "nude."
Give me a word that rhymes with "corn."
We surveyed 100 men: Name something of yours that's dirty.
What excuses would a kid give their teacher for not turning in their homework?
Name something a man might not notice his wife has changed.
Give me a name that rhymes with "Harry."
Name a food women crave when they're pregnant.
Name one thing people associate with leprechauns.
Name a movie monster you think could take Dracula in a fight.
Name a way to make bathing a sexy experience.
Name something people do with their index finger.
Name a type of vehicle that's used in the military.
Name a place people go when they might take a lot of coins with them.
Name something that you sometimes don't bother to take off when you go to bed.
Name something about Peter Pan that's different from the average boy.
Name something in a divorce settlement that can't be divided in half.
Name the most useful body part that begins with the letter "L."
Name something people like to do around a campfire.
Give me a name for someone who has to know everybody's business.
Name a device used for cutting.
Name a breed of dog that starts with the letter "C."
Name a vegetable that begins with the letter "B."
Name a part of a woman's body that's very attractive when it's long.
Name a vehicle that doesn't have an engine.
Name something that gets plugged up.
Tell me how many months it takes before a dog is house trained?
Name a part of your daily personal hygiene routine that you sometimes skip.
Name something teenagers do on purpose to tick off their parents.
Name something that a big brother teaches his little brother how to do.
Name a celebrity couple who has battled through a nasty divorce.
Name something you wouldn't want to have two of.
If you saw someone being mugged, what would you do?
Name a public place where there's always at least one baby crying.
Name something you have in your house right now that doesn't work.
Name a kind of net.
Name something that might be dangerous to cross.
Name a part of your body that you can cross.
Name something married people share that causes a lot of arguments.
We asked 100 women: Name an actor who should leave his body to science.
Name a situation where you would show your drivers license.
Name a type of repairman you might call to your house in an emergency.
Name something people might swipe from their neighbor.
Name something you would keep in your house in case of an emergency.
Name something that's good about living alone.
Name something you always keep by your phone.
Name a sport where players lose teeth.
Name something that might flop.
Name something you have to give up to live the simple life.
Name something a child does when having a temper tantrum.
Name something America sends to other countries.
Name a job which requires extreme fairness at all times.
Name an occupation whose members make their living on other people's misfortunes.
Name something men stop doing when they fall out of love.
Name something that scares you when you're driving.
They call themselves stay-at-home moms, but where are they?
If you woke up from a 20 year sleep, name the first thing you might do.
Name a game kids better not play inside the house.
Tell me something you know about Ed McMahon.
100 woman surveyed: People promise to marry for better or worse. Name something that turned out better than you expected.
Name a doctor's order people never take seriously.
Name something in a restaurant that had better not be dirty, or you'll get up and leave.
Name a famous woman with abs of steel.
Name something associated with Larry King.
Name something people kiss for luck.
Name something you haven't ridden since you were a kid.
Name something about Dr. Phil that comedians make fun of.
Give me a word that might complete the phrase: The Black ____.
Name an animal that doesn't have a leg to stand on.
Name an animal that best describes your boss.
Besides a fish, name something you might find at the end of a fishing line.
Name a time-honored tradition that fans observe at baseball games.
Name someone who might knock on your door that would cause you to pretend you're not home.
Name something a good fortune teller tells a woman will happen in her future.
Name something a man might hide right before he divorces his wife.
Name a breed of dog that a macho man would never buy.
Name something you have to refrigerate after opening.
Name something belonging to your boss you might use if he or she was gone all day.
Tell me a famous Dennis.
Name something a lot of people do on Sunday morning.
Name something that has a captain.
Name something people say is on the house.
We surveyed 100 married women: If you didn't cook for your husband, what would he do?
Name a beautiful actress named Jennifer.
When a couple decides to cancel their wedding, who gets the first call?
They say the wife is always the last to know. Name something that she might be the last to know about her husband.
Past or present, name a TV show set on an island.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "R."
Name a way people warm up their cold feet in bed.
We surveyed 100 men: Name something women are always changing.
Name something that people soak.
Name something that people shed.
Name the worst thing a policeman could find in your car when he pulls you over.
Name a reason that a beautiful young girl dates Hugh Hefner.
Name a place you should never ever use foul language.
We surveyed 100 single women: Name an Australian actor you wouldn't mind taking out back.
Give me a famous Diane or Diana.
Name something kids do when their pet goldfish dies.
Love is the right reason to get married. Name one of the wrong reasons.
Past or present, name a famous person whose last name is Grant.
Which animal communicates best with humans?
Name something that a person who just got divorced might be hesitant to do.
Name a reason your car insurance rates go up.
Name something you own that might get repossessed.
Name something that might be on the rocks.
The boss in the family is the one who controls what?
Name something a person might be struck by.
On what day of the week is it hardest to get out of bed?
Name something a person with a really long tongue might be able to touch on their face.
Name something that gets stale.
If you could fly, name something you'd save a lot of money on.
Name a place you'd find ice.
Which particular occupation is commonly held by people with the highest I.Q.?
Tell me something that smells great when it's new.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "chain".
If a man's wife did everything for him, name something in his house he'd have trouble using if they got divorced.
Tell me the worst thing people pawn when they need money.
Name something people get on and get off.
Name an animal that seems to exist only to breed and multiply.
Name something that may be found washed up on the beach.
If you were going on a diet tomorrow, what food would you be shoving in your mouth today?
We asked 100 women: Name something that's better than being beautiful.
Name something your date might do in a restaurant which would embarrass you.
What's your favorite thing to do when you're home alone?
Name a celebrity you do not want teaching your kids how to drive.
Name something you might do on a sunny day that you'd never do on a rainy day.
Name a type of business that flourishes in a gambling town.
We surveyed 100 married women: Tell me something you'd love your husband to say to you without prompting.
We surveyed 100 women: Name something men are good for.
Name a specific place at the office where people sneak off for romantic encounters.
We surveyed 100 men: Name something you'd better not interrupt a woman while she's doing it.
If animals could talk, which one would complain the most about humans?
Give me a word or phrase beginning with the word "mouth."
Name something an obnoxious driver does.
Name something a school on a really tight budget might not have money for.
Name something that's just plain rude to show up late for.
What is the first thing you do when you get off a long airplane flight?
If you criticize a chef's cooking, name something he might hit you with.
What do rich people talk about?
Name a famous Kate or Katie.
Name something Donald Trump has that's big.
We surveyed 100 women: Name something you compliment a man on just to feed his ego.
Name something that you see on the cover of a Christmas card.
Name a prop a stripper uses.
Name an item that people bring to a pawn shop.
If you were the world's biggest slob, name something you might go an entire year without washing.
Name something people on cruises do.
Name a city people go to follow their dreams.
Name something you do in the summer that you usually don't do in the winter.
Name a gift a man would give his wife that she might consider an insult.
Name something you can do to mess up when you take someone's picture.
Name a food that you hope scientists will someday discover is good for you.
Name something people can't stop worrying about, even on vacation.
Living for dead, name a former President who's more popular now than during his Presidency.
What's the first thing that comes to mind when you heat the name Elvis Presley?
Name something you shouldn't leave out in hot weather.
Name soemthing your 5 year old should be able to do but can't.
Name a sound your body makes that you might not be able to control.
Name a cooked food that's just as good hot or cold.
If you decided to live a simpler life, what's the first thing you'd get rid of?
Name something that goes by fast.
Name an occupation in which there's no room for mistakes.
Name an athlete who brings to mind the song "Nobody does it better".
Name something in the house to which an overnight guest is told to "Help Themselves"
Name something it is impossible to do without a thumb.
Name an ingredient used to make a cake.
Tell me what you know about "The Terminator".
Name something associated with a full moon.
Tell me the age at which children start buying their parents Christmas gifts.
Name a word teenagers use in place of "really great".
Fill in the blank: It's hard to find a good ______.
Name a Steven Spielberg movie.
Name a country that starts with the letter "T".
Fill in the blank: There is nothing more important in life than ____.
Name an occupation that attracts ambitious people.
If Mr. Potato Head retired, name a vegetable that might take his place.
Tell me something bridemaids complain about.
We surveyed 100 women: Name something specific under the car's hood that you can identify.
Tell me something you might forget to put on in the morning and then feel weird all day.
Tell me something two people can ride at the same time.
Name an animal whose legs you eat.
What's something that can turn an ordinary bath into a romantic one?
Name something you want to know about a movie before you go see it.
Name something that might be referred to as juicy.
Name someone famous with "Jessica" in their name.
Tell me something that gets buried.
While salaries have gone down, name something that's gone up.
Name a U.S. city that begins with the letter "L".
Name something that begins with "first and ____".
Name something people pound.
Name a talk show where you always see the guests crying.
When you stay in a hotel, name something you worry isn't really clean.
Name the most uncomfortable place you've ever slept.
Name a celebrity who's served time in the slammer.
Name an animal you wouldn't want your dog to get in a fight with.
Who makes the best burgers?
Name something that lays a really big egg.
Name something a kid might complain about at summer camp.
Name a current movie star known for having a great smile.
Name something you're starting to think you'll never be able to afford.
We asked 100 men: What do you like best about summer?
Name the worst pet to put on the sign, "BEWARE OF".
Name a country that you still feel it's safe to travel to.
Name someone actors always thank in an award acceptance speech.
Name something people put their fingers in their mouths to do.
Name the prettiest city in the U.S.
Name something people say they have 'given up' that they still do secretly.
Name a place where you keep pictures of your loved ones.
Give me a famous female whose first name starts with the letter "J".
Name something you might find on the bottom of a shoe.
Name something that health-conscious people look for food to be low in.
When money is tight, people go out less often. Name something that's fun to do at home.
Tell me something neighbors fight over.
What do most women expect most men to be really bad at?
We surveyed 100 single women: Tell me something you have that has lasted longer than most of your relationships.
Name something a wife tells her husband to get rid of.
Tell me something of yours that you swear is possessed.
Name an occupation that gets hit on by bored housewives.
Name something some men wear and some men don't.
Real or not, name someone famous named Jose.
We surveyed 100 women: Name a sport you'd only watch if the players were naked.
What might you do right after your boss says, "You're fired"?
We surveyed 100 married women: What do moms really want for Mother's Day?
Name a reason why a person might turn down a job.
Name something people often steal from the office to use at home.
Name something specific that has an anchor.
People can spend years looking for the perfect what?
Name an occupation where a person carries some kind of bag on the job.
Tell me something all little kids hate.
Name an animal that's really good at digging.
Name something about Tom Cruise that comedians make fun of.
Give me a boy's name that starts with the letter "C."
Name a part of their body where men start to grow hair about the same time they start losing it on their heads.
Give me an animal that begins with the letter "W."
Name a monster who just wanted to be loved.
Name something you spend more money on the older you get.
Name something people have second thought about after they decide to do it.
Name something neighbors swap with each other.
Besides buying it, name a way someone can get a car.
Name a famous person who's known for giving advice.
Name a place where people like to read the morning newspaper.
Name a phrase that starts with "Below the..."
Name something that a couple has a first one of.
Besides a regular Sunday, tell me an occassion when you might go to church.
Tell me something you hate to admit you did on Saturday night.
Name something dogs do a lot of during the dog days of summer.
Name something women can do for hours on end.
Name something that, once you learned how to do it, you never forget
Name something people think brings bad luck.
Name something a surgeon keeps near them when they work.
Name someone who died for a cause.
Name something everybody knows about Cinderella.
Name a famous Patty.
If you got fired from your job on Monday, name something you might do on Tuesday.
Name something people ride that causes them to throw up.
Name an improper place where you found yourself cracking jokes.
Name a holiday or occasion that's fun for kids but work for parents.
Name a former president you would have voted for if you were living at the time.
Name something you have to put up with if you live in Los Angeles.
Name something gross a person might say they found in their fast food so they can sue the company.
Name someone a person might confess a crime to.
Name an occupation in which you would go on duty.
What's a good gift to take to someone who is staying in the hospital?
Name something specific that a person might have that he or she won't tell you is really fake.
Name a phrase tha starts with the word "soul."
Name a reason you don't allow your kids to swim in the ocean.
Name something people do for someone who feels faint.
Name something you've found in your food in a restaurant and complained to the manager about it.
Name the American city you think that the rudest people.
Name something children beg parents for at bedtime.
Name something you'd better show up on time for.
Tell me something that's known as a bloodsucker.
Name something you routinely fall asleep while doing.
Name something people put on their teeth.
Name something people hate doing in the morning when they have a hangover.
Tell me an animal that has big ears.
Name something that's described as running.
When you arrive in heaven, who do you think will be there to greet you?
Name something that people do at midnight on New Year's Eve.
We surveyed 100 married women: When your husband is in the mood for love, what are you in the mood for?
We surveyed 100 married people: What is the biggest complaint about sleeping with your spouse?
Give me a word that rhymes with "bubble."
Name a public place where you see parents disciplining their children.
Give me an American city that begins with the letter "H."
Name something people who are at a casino do with dice right before they roll them.
Name a place dogs hate to go.
Name something golfers might lose during a round of golf.
Name a reason a kid might not be able to go outside.
Name a living thing that hops.
Name something a man doesn't like being turned down for.
Tell me something that a person might lie about on a loan application.
Name something chickens do.
Name a kind of place you might work where you'd really put on the pounds.
Name something a man might have expensive taste in.
Name a movie that has the word "war" in its title.
Name someone you talk over your sex life with.
When a man breaks a woman's heart, name something of his she'd like to break.
Name something that starts with the letter "M" that women want.
When playing charades, name one thing people do to imitate a dog.
Name something people have a hard time holding onto.
Name a kind of workman everybody complains about.
Name some people you're nice to even if you don't like them.
Name something dogs can do for hours at a time.
Name a subject you can't discuss without losing your temper.
Name a writer who everyone studied in high school.
Name something that happened to Pinocchio.
Tell me something you hope won't happen when you're driving.
Name a part of your body that has a lot of meat on it.
Name something that turns people into grouches if they try to go too long without it.
Tell me something people do to pass the time when they're sick at home.
Name something that might be called "foul."
Tell me a place where you'd see a group of cardinals.
We surveyed 100 women: Name something you bought because it was guaranteed to turn a man on.
Name something women do a lot of when they're pregnant.
Name something women have with a strap on it.
Name something a woman throws out the window when she finds out her boyfriend has cheated on her.
Name the most important feature of an attractive face.
Name an American beer.
Name a place where women dress sexy.
Name an animal on Noah's ark that took up a lot of space.
Name an amusement park ride that you could compare to marriage.
Name something people lose that can ruin a vacation.
In summer, name something people like to do under a shady tree.
Name the worst thing a doctor could order a person to give up.
Name something women wear that hurts.
Give me the name of a country that has exactly four letters.
Name something you associate with Kentucky.
Name something people bring with them to their high school reunion.
Name a country where they drink lots of wine.
Name a common topic of conversation at men's poker games.
Past or present, name someone famous whose first name is Elizabeth.
Tell me something that can have a dead end.
Name a circus animal that would be much happier living in the jungle.
Tell me an Academy Award category most people stay up to watch.
Past or present, name a famous Joan.
Name something people get dismissed from.
Tell me something people play for hours and hours.
If a baby was six feet tall, name something you'd have a hard time buying for him.
Name the first thing that tells you to go on a diet.
Name something that witches are supposed to be able to do.
Name a Peter from a children's story or rhyme.
Name something you see outdoors that rhymes with the word "brain."
Name something that reminds you of New Orleans.
Besides chicken, tell me a type of bird that's good to eat.
Name a famous Barbara.
Name something you might ask someone to do to your back.
Name something an armchair quarterback has nearby during the Super Bowl.
Name something specific that gets brushed.
Name a fruit that tastes good when it's dipped in chocolate.
Name a country that seems to tell other countries what to do.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "E."
Name something a boxer wears for protection.
Tell me something that people hug in bed.
Name an occupation of someone who might be called to the scene of an accident.
Name something that women wash more often than men do.
On which holiday are the most collect calls made?
Name an appliance in the bathroom that you plug in.
Name something people have to squeeze into.
Tell me something around the house that you empty.
Name a political figure who's known the best of times and the worst of times.
Name a wild animal that you'd be foolish to keep as a pet.
Name an animal that men are often described as.
Name something Bill Gates cannot buy.
Name something people know about Will Smith.
Name something people have to be taught to hold correctly.
We asked 100 married menName something you wouldn't dare buy without first asking your wife.
Name something a man puts in the pocket of his swim trunks.
Tell me something a lot of your friends have trouble keeping.
Name a fast-paced sport.
If you don't have a ruler, name something you use to measure things with.
Name a kind of salad.
Name the gift you've gotten from your spouse that you cherish the most.
Name something specific a mansion has in it that your house doesn't.
If your cat went on strike, name something he might demand before returning to work as your pet.
Name a U.S. President whose name ends in "son".
Name something you'd find at most amusement parks. (RIDES IS NOT AN ANSWER, BE MORE SPECIFIC)
Name an animal that's more capable of making a lasting commitment than humans.
Name an occassion that all parents look forward to.
Name something you dunk.
Name an expression that contains the word "ship".
Name something people worry they won't be able to pay for.
Name someone you love on American Idol.
If you can't get a flu shot, name something you can do to protect yourself from the flu.
What do many people look back on as the most frightening day of their lives?
Name something a husband always says he's going to do around the house, even though he has no clue how to do it.
Name something that has wax.
Name an occasion when people get sentimental.
Name something parents regret buying for their children.
Name a profession that requires schooling past college.
If you dated Simon Cowell from American Idol, name something he might criticize about you.
Name something you might blow out.
Name the worst place to accidentally fall asleep.
Give me a male name from the Bible that's very popular these days.
Name something you squeeze to get more out of it.
Name something a woman sees, that would make her tell her husband to stop the car.
Name something people have trouble getting rid of.
Name something that women like to hold.
What is your favorite casino in Las Vegas to lose all your money at?
Name an occupation whose members it seems are being paid to do nothing.
Name something that contains the word "potato".
What would you do if you saw a ghost?
Name an animal even an elderly person could outrun.
Name something you might do in the nude if you didn't have neighbors.
Name a place that offers senior citizen discounts.
What should you always be on the look out for when you're driving?
Name something you'd hate to discover you'd been sitting on.
Name something you hate to get into when it's cold.
Name something people break into.
Name an animal that bites.
Name something people look forward to a change of.
If you were the host of "Family Feud", name something you'd probably have to say a lot.
Tell me something that you split.
Name a type of music that's hard to dance to.
Name someone you'd want your daughter to grow up to be like.
Name a reason why a young man would try to cover up his tattoos.
Name one thing that people associate with Beverly Hills.
Name someone in America that may be more powerful than Oprah.
Name an activity during which people get "eaten alive" by mosquitoes.
Name a specific item that makes furniture mover wish he'd chosen another occupation.
Name an animal that you hear at night.
What part of your spouse's body is always cold?
Name an expression that starts with the word "fly".
Name the U.S. city which has the most haunted houses.
Name an occupation in which you might do a lot of digging.
Name something about some people's voices that's very annoying.
Which food are you most likely to pig out on?
Name something you wish you had in your backyard?
Name something which people would hate to discover is cracked.
Name something you get rid of when it doesn't work properly.
Name your favorite thing to do at parties.
Name a sport where you see players behaving badly.
Name an occasion for which people wear their very best clothes.
Name a place where strangers become fast friends.
Name something that comes in a huge variety of flavors.
If Donald Trump lost all his money, name something else he'd probably lose.
Name something a person might steal from your car that would make it impossible to drive.
Name something of their husband's that wives check regularly.
Name a reason a stuffed animal might be better than a real pet.
Name something that starts with the word "Killer".
Name a country you feel the U.S. should defend if the country was threatened.
Name the first thing a teenager does when he gets home from school.
Name a popular college major.
Name a famous Richard.
We asked 100 women: What was the worst occupation you ever had?
Name a specific animal whose eggs you'd probably never eat for breakfast.
Excluding your fellow humans, name something you love dearly.
Name something new you get, that takes time to get used to.
Name an occupation where a woman works hard for the money.
Name a quality that makes a successful man successful, but also makes him not such a good husband.
Name something you hope you never run out of.
Name something you might find on a deserted island.
Name a profession that requires really good balance.
When it's the middle of the night, tell me an activity you try to do quietly.
Name something that could embarrass an actor on stage.
When you go to a party, name a good excuse to give as your exit strategy.
Name a city that's too expensive for most people to live in.
Name a food associated with Mexico.
Tell me an expression that contains the word "sweat".
Name something that is rubbed when it hurts.
Name somewhere people are where they say: "I gotta get out of this place."
Name something that has a speaker.
Name one of the specific times when you usually look your worst.
Tell me something of your boss's that you'd like to have.
Which city do you think has the rudest drivers?
Name a way you'd know a dog is mad at you.
Name an activity you shouldn't take up, unless you know how to swim.
Name a famous tough guy who could really take a punch.
Name something you should keep in the trunk of your car, just in case.
Tell me an occupation in which you deal with people's feet.
Name something a secretary could do faster after three cups of coffee.
Name something men enjoy shopping for.
Name another word for a horse.
Name a food or drink that begins with the word "hot."
Which occupation do you think make you not necessarily the richest, but the happiest?
Name something that, to a slob, belongs on the floor.
Name something people do at the airport when they discover their flight's been cancelled.
Name something people think about for months before they get the nerve to do it.
Name something a man would need to go from beached whale to Ironman athlete.
We asked 100 men: Name something you've tried to fix and failed.
Life is short, so might as well spend it doing what?
Name something you see that makes you realize it's beginning to look a lot like Christmas.
What is your favourite part of a wedding?
Name something a woman usually has more of than a man has.
Name something you might hear someone at work just got.
Name something you'd do if you were alone and stuck in an elevator.
Name something that makes strange sounds when it gets old.
Name something you don't have to do when you're out of work?
Name an animal you wouldn't want to give mouth to mouth to.
Name something babies like to see their mommy holding.
When shopping at a store, what would you do if your credit card was declined?
Two heads are better than one. Name another part of your body you might want to have two of.
Name a kind of person who gets a lot of "buttering-up" from others.
If people don't know a waitress' real name, tell me another name they might call her by.
Name a person you don't necessarily like, but are obligated to get along with.
Name an insect that really bugs you.
Name an animal that people ride.
Name a home improvement a cheap guy might try to do himself to save money.
Name something you wish you had been born with more of.
Tell me a word that can start with "hit the ____".
Name an insect most people find harmless.
Name a food that's served at a Japanese restaurant.
If a man got dressed in the dark, name something of his wife's he might put on by mistake.
Which talk show host (not game show host) do you think would be best on a celebrity dance show?
If you wanted to simplify your life, name something you'd get rid of.
Name something that might be shallow.
Name something that always comes in pairs.
Name something some women do with their little babies, that other women do with their little dogs.
Name an occupation that rips people off.
Name something you'd love to win a lifetime supply of.
When you really think about it, what's something you are lucky to have?
Name a breed of dog a man would be embarrassed to admit he's afraid of.
Name a profession that charges people just to talk to them.
We asked 100 men: On what subject are you most often asking others for advice?
Name something you do just before a visit to the dentist.
Name an animal who should be very worried about global warming.
If you walked into a public restroom, name a reason you might walk right back out.
A man divorces after 25 years of marriage. Name something that will be different about dating now.
Name a reason why someone might start sweating.
Name something that is better when it is hot.
Name an animal we eat that would never eat us.
Name something people do to get on their boss' good side.
Name the most effective one-word command.
Name a bill you'll be paying every month for the rest of your life.
Name a place people go to read in peace.
Name an ingredient in ratatouille.
Tell me a job a man might have in which he works with attractive women.
Name a food you lick off you fingers.
Name something that makes you sweat just thinking about it.
They say with age comes wisdom. Name something else that comes with age.
If McDonald's had a happy meal for adults, what would the prize be?
Name a fish that starts with the letter "T".
Name something a tourist visits in Washington, D.C.
Name something people do to their hair that makes them look silly.
Name a place elderly singles meet.
Name a good job for the smartest person in the world.
Name something you'd expect to see in a psychiatrist's office.
Name the most famous Englishman alive today.
Name something you'd hate about living on a farm.
Name something that people often do before they go on a job interview.
We asked 100 dieters, "Name the first thing you ate when you went off your diet."
We asked 100 women: Name something you love to splurge on.
Name something that fades over time.
Past or present, name a game show about relationships.
Name a fruit that's green when it's ripe.
Name something a teenager would never do unless his parents insisted on it.
Name a reason someone might tell you to close your eyes.
Name something people do to prevent from getting sick.
What's the shabbiest thing you own.
Name a sport in which the term "slam" is used.
Name something people do to get rid of bad breath.
Name something a woman loses that makes her cry when she finds it.
Name something that might be missing from your car if you parked it in a bad neighborhood?
Name an event in your life that you wouldn't mind reliving over and over.
Name a word to describe Lady Gaga.
Name a food that a really big guy could eat ten of in one sitting.
Name something that kids don't take very good care of.
What do people dislike the most about riding the bus?
Name something that many people put off doing because it's too expensive.
Which part of your body do you scratch the most?
Name something cats like to rub up against.
Name something that twins share.
While the rich get richer, name something everyone else is having trouble affording.
They say the best things in life are free. Name one.
Name a part of the fish you wouldn't want to find in your fish sticks.
Tell me something about a zombie.
Name something that's hard for a little kid to sit through.
Name something you don't have to do for fish when you have them as pets.
Tell me something people shine.
Name something you could save money on if you didn't have any teeth.
Name something there's a shortage of in hospitals.
Describe a bad occupation for someone who can't swim.
Tell me something that ruins your dinner.
Name something you couldn't do without your lips.
Name a reason why a restaurant might not make a customer pay for his lunch.
Name an activity people wear gloves for.
Name something people grope for in the dark.
Tell me something people pitch.
When a man starts to go bald, name a place he starts finding his hair.
Name something people have a hard time holding on to.
Name something an inconsiderate person will "hog" from others.
Name something protestors burn to make a point.
Name a reason a woman might be looking better than ever.
Name something that always ends up costing more money than you expect it to.
Name something many people have trouble keeping.
Tell me something a woman does differently when she's pregnant.
Name a place where you see husbands standing around waiting for their wives.
Name something you might do that could cause you to sweat a lot.
Name a place you go to once or twice a week.
Name something that is important to a man when choosing a restaurant to take his date to.
Name a complaint people have about hospitals.
Name a dangerous water sport.
Name something that couples in love always have a favourite one of.
Name something people worry about not having in their old age.
Name something people fear that starts with the letter "S".
Name something people hide on purpose and can't remember where they put it.
Name something that has a needle.
Name a zoo animal you could recognize just from the smell.
Name a famous college located in California.
Name someone famous who's in jail.
Name something about yourself you'd hate to be told is bad.
We asked 100 men: Name something women do a lot of that starts with the letter "C".
If the tables were turned, name something about Dr. Phil a guest might criticize.
Name a way people might greet each other.
Name something some people buy new and other people buy used.
Name something you've stayed up all night worrying about.
Name something that some people eat raw.
Name the one thing you just don't want to do first thing in the morning.
What part of people's bodies do dogs bite most?
Tell me one fact about John Lennon.
Name a reason someone might say they love living in Las Vegas.
Name something a person pays someone else to get rid of.
Name a hot headed celebrity who should enroll in an anger management class.
Tell me one thing you know about Rudy Giuliani.
Name something even little girls plan about their wedding.
Name a woman who made one giant leap for womankind.
Name a TV personality you wish would take a vow of silence.
Name something you might do before an operation.
Name something that's so noisy, you wish it had never been invented.
Name something people like to lie beside.
Name something that a rich kid might brag about to his schoolmates.
Name an occupation whose members should be very clean.
What issue do voters care most about?
What's the last thing you bought that you couldn't afford?
Name something that's really, really hairy.
Name an animal your mate sounds like when he or she snores.
Name something that some women's lives seem to revolve around.
Tell me a boy's name that starts with the letter "M".
Give me a boy's name that starts with the letter "A".
Name something that might come out early?
Name something that can be frustrating to use for the very first time.
Name something you failed miserably at the first time you did it.
Who do you think is the most envied woman in the world?
Name something kids build out of a cardboard box.
Name a boy's pet that a mother might dread feeding.
Name an exercise you haven't done since high school gym class.
Name something you'd expect to see on the streets at Christmas time.
Name something you need when you give your dog a bath.
Name something you find in the lobby of a post office.
Name a room in your home that's hard to keep clean.
Name something a couple hides from each other.
Name a school subject you don't know much about.
Name a romantic movie that women watch over an over again.
Name something that might be spoiled.
Name something people have personal codes for.
Name a loud noise you might hear coming from your rude neighbors house.
Name something that gets sandy on a visit to the beach.
Name something overprotective mothers are afraid to let their children do.
Name something that needs to be changed often.
Name a cartoon character who's always getting hurt.
What's something you can cuddle?
We asked 100 women: Name someone you might call if you needed advice.
Besides a car, name something with wheels that's kept in a garage.
Name something you wear that would still fit you if you lost 20 lbs.
Name something you read every day, without fail.
Name something a woman pretends to be interested in to make conversation with a man she is interested in.
We asked 100 married women: Which one of your husband's relatives do you like the least?
Name a home appliance that can get hot.
Name a holiday that's only celebrated in America.
Name something a mom might ask her daughter to turn off because it's time for bed.
We asked 100 married men: Tell me something you're sure a robot could do better than your spouse can.
Name something you would put on a snowman.
If you inherited a million dollars tonight, what's the first thing you'd do tomorrow morning?
Name something that you keep an especially close eye on during a trip because you're afraid of losing it.
Name a happy occasion when people get choked up when they speak.
Name someone you only see once a year.
Tell me someone you've told to keep quiet.
Apart from jewelry, what might you find in a jewlery box?
Name a government agency with a three-letter abbreviation.
Name something hippies used to wear that may someday come back in style.
Name an excuse that a girl gives when she doesn't want to "slow dance" with a man.
Name something in your home that's used when you entertain company.
Name a food people stir while it's cooking.
Name something about which you think it's useless to worry.
Name an animal that grazes.
Name a smell you associate with your grandmother's house.
Name something you buy that has a clock in it.
Name something people collect today that might be worth a lot tomorrow.
Name a major U.S. city whose mayor has major headaches.
Besides skis, name something people use on a ski slope.
Name something you associate with an island.
Name something that is found in a pond.
Name something you'd rather get than give.
Name a place children go that can be hotbed of germs.
Name something with a beginning, a middle and an end.
Past or present, name a celebrity named "Dean".
Name an event you might hire a band for.
Name something people stick in their ears.
Name an accessory kids put on their bikes.
Name something you couldn't do without, not even for one day
Name a food you wouldn't eat with a fork.
Name a toy that both boys and girls enjoy playing with.
Name a company that makes batteries.
Name a sound people lie awake all night listening to.
Name a kind of wood used to make furniture.
Name something you would hate to have break down just before you host a big party.
Name a bad sport for someone who is afraid of the water.
Name a possession of yours they'd never try to bury with you.
Name something people record.
Name something about a person that makes him or her look evil.
After the United States, which country has the largest economy in the world?
Name something a cowboy might ride if he lost his horse.
Name something a guy saves money on if he's bald.
Name a subject people talk about when they're just getting acquainted.
Name something a doctor recommends for people who are rundown.
Name something drivers do when they get lost.
Name something for which you've gotten a traffic ticket.
Name a sport that requires you to hit something.
Name something you would never see Donald Trump without.
Name a kind of boat that does not have an engine.
Name something the oldest child gets more than the other kids in the family.
Name something roommates fight over.
Name something that most people can usually tell is a fake.
Name something people think they can get away with if they are rich.
We asked 100 women: Name the softest part on your man's body.
Name something specific snobs are snobbish about.
Name something a woman has that her boyfriend might consider "baggage".
Where do nudists go in the winter?
Name a place married men go to temporarily escape from their wives.
Name something a woman likes about a man that begins with the letter "B".
Name a bird with a color in its name.
Name something you fold. ("Clothes" is not an answer, be more specific.)
Name something that happens during most church services.
Name something about his wedding that a prospective groom has no say in at all.
We asked 100 married women: What does your husband talk about when he plays poker with his buddies?
Name something people have second thoughts about doing.
Name a good place for a woman to work if her main goal is to snag a husband.
Name a reason the people sitting around you in a movie theater would give you dirty looks.
Name a Christmas song you cannot get out of your head during the holidays.
Name a famous person, past or present, whose last name is "Grant".
We asked 100 single women: If you could build the perfect man, tell me something you'd be sure he had.
We asked 100 married women: Name something you've trained your husband how to do correctly.
Name something in your car that might distract you while you're driving.
People eat animals. Tell me an animal that's been known to eat people.
If you were called to take part in an amateur talent contest, name something you might do.
We asked 100 married women: Name something your husband tries to fix but often just makes it worse.
Name a popular type of pie.
Name a type of bed.
What is the perfect dessert for a supermodel?
Name something you'd wear if you wanted to dress up like a rapper for Halloween.
Name the least private room in your house.
Name something you wear that you don't take to the dry cleaners.
Name something that makes a sound when you open it.
Besides salt and pepper, name a seasoning everyone keeps in their kitchen.
Name something that grows on a vine.
Name something parents tell their kids not to waste.
Name a food that taste good hot or cold.
Name soemthing that goes up and down.
Name something people put on a bagel.
Name something, real or imaginary, that might frighten a little kid.
Name something that beeps to alert you.
Name a bird that's listed in 'The 12 Days of Christmas'.
Name something campers hate to find in their sleeping bag.
Name the profession that a woman's "dream man" would have.
Name something strangers might talk about to break the ice.
Name a place in the newspaper you wouldn't want to see your name.
Name something a person sees while driving that would cause them to slow down.
Besides her looks, name something a woman uses to snag a man.
Name a high school subject that kids consider difficult.
Name a popular wedding gift.
Name something that has a siren.
Name something people find under their sofa cushions.
Name a product that is sold on "infomercials".
Name an animal people wish didn't exist.
Name one of Santa's reindeer.
Name something a lifeguard should know how to do.
Name something that people get removed from their body.
Name something a person might use to clean their belly button.
Name a sea creature you'd hate to run into while scuba diving.
Name a legendary rock band.
As Harry Potter gets older, name a part of his body that gets more hairy.
Besides a screwdriver, name the best household tool to have around.
Name something that is made with apples.
Name a subject some people consider "personal".
Name the number of times per week that you stay up past 11:00pm.
Tell me a word a child uses to describe a bruise.
Name something you might ask a hotel maid for more of.
At what age would most men like to get married?
Name a romantic movie people like to rent.
Name a sporting event that only happens once a year.
Name a TV show aimed at smart people.
Name something that even the happiest couple bicker about.
Name a body part a pirate might be missing.
Name a famous street in New York City.
Name a piece of jewelry women often lose.
Name a drink that people gulp.
Name a candy bar with peanuts in it.
Name a food you might serve with champagne.
Name something a car thief might see inside a car that might make him think twice about steaking it.
If a man's wife is brunette, name a place she had better not find a blonde hair.
We asked 100 married men: What do you think is the real reason so many marriages break up?
Other than take aspirin, name something people do for a headache.
Name something doctors tell us to avoid.
Name something that beach-goers complain about.
Name a type of business people would not want to live next to.
Besides marriage, name the most important decision a person will make in their life.
Name the happiest day in a person's life.
Name a movie that is set in outer space.
Name a TV program you can learn the most from.
Name an occasion when men buy roses.
Name something couples might fight about while planning their wedding.
Name something you would see at a bullfight.
Name an activity that makes people tired.
Name something in the ocean that begins with the letter "S".
Name a brand of soft drink that is lemon-lime flavored.
Name an expression that includes the word "dog".
Name something you associate with the Devil.
Name a popular brand of men's underwear.
Name an exercise that would be funny to watch a nudist do.
We asked 100 women: Name an athlete you would like to see do an underwear ad.
Name something a woman never wants to see on her face when she looks in the mirror.
Name something women try to cover up.
How many generations of your family have lived in the United States?
Name a group with three initials that scare you.
Name a card you carry in your wallet in case of an emergency.
Name a sound kids make when they sing "Old MacDonald".
Name the lumpiest part of your body.
Name a food that is often served with white wine.
Name something men brag they have done many times in their lives.
Name a nice way to tell someone to shut up.
On a scale of one to ten, how independent are most American women.
Name something you felt guilty about doing soon after you did it.
Name something you might see on a table when a poker game is in progress.
Name an accessory almost every woman wears.
Name a word that rhymes with "dude" that also describes reality show stars.
Name something your second spouse would not want to see from your first marriage.
We asked 100 men: If you had to wear women's clothing, name an article of clothing you would like to wear.
Name something that boys hate doing because they think only sissies do it.`
Name something men will actually take the time to clean.
Fill in the blank: Pamela Anderson owes her success to her _______.
How many parties do you throw per year?
Name a kind of place where you feel out of place.
Name something some men just can't stand a woman being better at than they are.
Name a major airport.
Besides Mother Goose, name a character from a nursery rhyme.
Name something people keep under lock and key.
Name a power tool.
Name something a pregnant woman does to make sure her baby is healthy.
Name something critics review.
Name a famous woman named "Susan".
Name something people do in bed that might annoy the person they are sleeping with.
Name something that happens to a celebrity that makes the news.
Name something people have several of each day.
Name something you associate with the song "Old McDonald".
Name something you would have to get used to if you joined the military.
Name an important number people often memorize.
Name something associated with the Devil.
Name something people do to their dogs.
Name an expression that includes the word "dog."
Name a product that uses sexy women in its ads.
Name a country known for its sexy men.
Name a tourist attraction that most Americans want to visit at least once in their lifetime.
Name a compliment men like to receive.
At what age would most men like to get married.
Name something specific you might request on an invitation.
Name a Jim Carrey movie.
Name a nursery rhyme that has the word "little" in the title.
Name something you might put in a picnic basket.
Name a singing group that has a number in its name.
Name something you associate with the Lone Ranger.
Name something you associate with Mick Jagger.
Which cartoon character would you most want to hang out with.
Name the first thing you would spend money on if you won the lottery.
Name something medieval knights used in combat.
Name the age when a woman goes from being a "babe" to a "ma'am".
Name something specific for which people receive a badge, ribbon, or medal.
Name something that is imported from Japan.
Name something found on a naval submarine.
Name something you might ask a hotel maid for mor of.
Name a place where people are required to show ID.
Name an article of clothing worn by both men and women.
Name a reason you might not want to go into a swimming pool.
Name something that might accidentally get caught in a paper shredder.
Name a famous doctor.
Name a store that is known for its catalogue.
What is the best soap opera of all time.
Name something you associate with the Hell's Angels.
Name something people hold onto because they say it is lucky.
Name a man famous for wearing women's clothing.
Name a one-word card game.
Name something a doctor might advise you to do.
Besides the weasel, name something that goes "pop".
Besides the weasel, name something that goes by "pop".
Name something people make from grapes.
Name a horror movie that's had a lot of sequels.
Give me another word for 'dress'.
Name something you associate with chimneys.
What animal do you think eats the most?
Name a creature that's known for carrying diseases.
Name something that slides easily down your throat.
Other than darling, give me a term of endearment.
Name a type of machine that requires coins.
Name a musical instrument you associate with jazz.
Name something a child might take to school for show-and-tell.
Name a foreign type of hat.
Name a book that people refer to frequently.
Apart from TV and film, name something you watch.
Name something you associate with taxis.
Name something that has a label.
Name something sold door-to-door.
What's a very female hobby?
Name a type of performer.
Name a mischievous animal.
Name a school subject most parents couldn't help their kid do.
Name something people have two of.
Name a vegetable that is white.
Name a toy you might find in a little boy's room.
Name something you associate with fingers.
Name something you might run out of.
What do you often smell before using?
Name something you might accidentally get locked in.
Name something you associate with sales and/or sails.
Name something you associate with a swamp.
Name a creature that uses its tail a lot.
Name a fruit found in canned fruit salad.
Name a sport where the players wear gloves.
Name something you associate with cars.
Name something people have delivered on a regular basis.
Name something people dye a different color.
Name a hidden cost when buying a new car.
When you let someone borrow your car, name something you hate to discover after it's returned.
Name something you might line up for at a cinema.
Name a month with 31 days.
Name thing you see on a farm.
Name an animal found on an Australian coin.
Name an animal that looks like it's smiling.
Name something you buy for a dog.
Give me another word for 'jail'.
Name something you buy that has to be weighed first.
Name something you associate with a degree.
Name something you associate with a degreee.
Name something people fall into.
Name something Australia sends to other countries.
Name a common place in the body to pull a muscle.
Name a present you might give someone for their 18th birthday.
Name something you wish you could trade in for a new one.
What musical instrument requires a lot of breath to play?
Name a way people like to have their steak.
Name something a workman might wipe on his workpants.
Name a room that might have a chair in it.
Name something that women wax.
What's another word for "excited"?
Name something a person keeps for a lifetime.
Name something most people open at least once a day.
Name something you associate with snow.
Name something you'd hate to be at the end of.
Name something you wish they'd get a new one of at the office.
At what age does a boy start wiping off his mother's kisses?
Tell me another word for blemish.
When mum can't make it to the hospital in time, name a place babies have been born.
Name someplace people go that begins with the letter "M".
Name something teenagers think it's important to be good at.
What do you think your approximate I.Q. is?
Name a food you cook in a frying pan.
Name some place where people whisper.
If a woman said her man was rated "G", what might the "G" stand for?
Name a type of doughnut.
What can you have layers of?
Name a part of the body that's spelt with four letters.
Name a seafood delicacy.
Name something you associate with an angel.
Name a reason that men give for going bald.
Name something you associate with a pirate.
Name a food that is crunchy.
Name something robbers of the Wild West stole.
Name a place where you might hear music.
Name something you see on a country property.
Which school subject do you think is useful in real life?
What would you hope doesn't break down just before you host a big party?
Name a popular variety of pizza.
Name something you associate with toes.
Name something that grows in length over time.
Name a place where they have lockers you can rent.
Name something you might put on your lap.
Name an occupation that involves touching others.
Name something you find on a cricket ground.
Name something an author needs to write a book.
Name something you'd find in a Japanese restaurant.
Name something children bring home from school.
Name a clothing fabric.
Name a colour of the rainbow.
Other than leaves, name something you associate with trees.
Name an expensive liquid.
Name something people accidentally leave in a taxi.
Name something you might find on an island.
Name a musical instrument played with the mouth.
Name a food that goes off quickly.
Name something you might do when saying goodbye to someone.
Name something you find in a photo lab.
Name something you associate with ankles.
Give me a word for a part of the day.
Name somewhere you find a radio.
Name something a man might wear to disguise himself.
Give me another word for fat.
Name something you need when you're moving.
Name a kind of doctor who would shock you if they asked you to get undressed.
Besides shoes, name something you might buy at a shoe store.
Name something kids learn at preschool.
Name something you'd find in a hotel room.
Name something you might find in a taxi.
Name something that some people seem to love more than people.
Name something kids play with on the way to school.
Name something you associate with university.
Name a part of your body that plastic surgery could possibly improve.
Name something a man might not have anymore after a divorce.
Name something found in a movie theatre.
Name a place where you might find flowers.
Name a part of your body which might be padded when playing sport.
Name something that you flip.
Give me another word for "kind".
Apart from a bee, what else can sting you?
As well as a baby, name something you need to bath a baby.
Name something you see in a palace.
Name a topic that bored people at parties.
Give me another word for "weird".
Name something you would need to wash a pet elephant.
Name a profession that's handy to have in the family.
Name a word kids hate their parents to use.
Name something you might prick your finger on.
Name a slimy animal.
Name an animal that has horns.
Name something that has many wheels.
Name an insect that can fly.
Name an animal that digs.
Name something that is driven by the wind.
Name something you associate with colouring in.
Name something that grows underwater.
Name a country that makes the best beer.
Name something you find on a principal's desk.
Name something with a flame.
Give me a slang term for money.
Name something you associate with a pop band.
Name something you associate with a barn.
Name a place where you find lots of water.
What's something that could ruin a wedding if it got there late?
Name something you can count.
Name something you associate with a supermarket.
Name something you find in a bowl
Name something you pluck.
Name something of yours that's getting older and looks it.
Name an event you wear a tie to.
Name something a school girl wears.
Name something babies require a lot of.
Name something you associate with darts.
Name someone who wears a robe.
Name a sea creature you would like in a water polo team.
Name any piece in a game of chess.
Name something you might polish.
In the shower, which part of the body is soaped first?
Name something women spend too much money on.
Name something that might go off in the fridge.
Name something you find on a bicycle.
Name an animal that you think of as dirty.
Name a food you only serve on special occasions.
Name something you put mustard on.
Besides water, name a liquid used in cooking.
Name something you find on a tennis court.
Name an instrument kids learn to play at school.
Name something that can be classed as being 'vintage'.
Name something you slurp.
Name something you might pinch from a hotel room.
Name the gift women love men to give them.
Name something that gets tuned.
Name something you need to sew a dress.
Name something in your kitchen that is full of holes.
Name something people take inside during bad weather.
Name a type of pest.
Name a sport where people say 'good shot'.
Name something you might put on a baby.
Name something people get built in their backyards.
Name something you see on a student's desk.
Name a feature of a kangaroo.
Name something you put sugar in.
Apart from horses, name something you might see at a horse race.
Besides a baby, name something you might see in a crib.
Name a style of ballroom dancing.
Name a common way to sign off an email.
Name a part of your body that moves when you laugh.
Name a type of TV show.
Name something that has a manager.
Name something you use in the home that has a wooden handle.
Name something people deliver for a living.
Name something you might find in a tree.
Name something a horse jumps over.
Name something you check under the bonnet of your car.
Name something you need to set a table.
Name something you associate with magicians.
Name a part of a watch.
Name a part of a car that thieves often steal.
Name something a baby does that you don't have to teach it.
Name a country with champion skiiers.
Name something that men like to give instructions on how to do.
Name a famous Muppet.
Name something you bring in from outdoors before a storm.
Name something a really lazy person might get their dog to fetch for them.
Name something specific kids take lessons for.
Name an animal that eats leaves.
Name something you associate with treasures.
Name a type of bean people eat.
Name something associated with "cowboys".
Name a part of their bodies that people complain is too big.
Name a good place to go on a first date.
Name something that most men don't do as well as they think they do.
Name a style of music.
Name something you'd hate to see on the kitchen counter.
Name something women leave lipstick marks on.
Name a part of the body mentioned in many love songs.
Give me a word that rhymes with "coke".
Name any birthstone.
Name something you'd see in a church.
Name something people carry in their hands as they board planes.
Name a place where you spray perfume.
What is the first thing a lady notices when she meets a man.
Name something you need for shaving.
Name something you see on a roulette table.
Name a sport that requires a glove.
Name something people have autographed.
Name something you hate to wash.
Name something that takes you across a river.
Name something you associate with the violin.
Name a food you'd love to throw at your worst enemy.
Name something you might donate.
Name something that can be engaged.
Name an animal you'd recognize by a picture of its ears.
Name a musical instrument in a marching band.
Name an activity you might do whilst in the mountains.
Name a popular type of bread.
Name something you find in the british countryside.
Name something you associate with winter.
Name a London tube station.
Name a London tube line.
Name a football player position.
Name something you associate with a crow.
Name a famous "Alan".
Name a TV soap opera.
Name a drink that really quenches your thirst.
Name a slang term for 'underpants'.
Name a European country.
What is your favourite part of the human body?
Name a food that doesn't grow on trees.
Name something you might take a motion sickness pill before doing.
Name an animal that is scary to hold.
Name a sport that requires protective clothing.
Name someting people bet on.
Name one of the seven dwarfs.
Name an occupation that uses a drill.
Name an event that you might want to capture on video.
Name something that softens with age.
Name one thing adults look forward to at Christmas time.
Name a place where talking gets you a dirty look.
Name an expensive foreign car.
Name something you buy for grandfathers at Christmas.
Name something grandmas offer you when you're visiting them.
Name a gift for someone who has just had a baby.
Name something you see inside a pyramid.
Besides books, name something you might see in a bookcase.
Name something you see at a football club.
Name something you associate with a dove.
Name something women leave lying all over the bathroom.
Name something of yours that you hope doesn't start making noises.
Which television family would make the best neighbors?
Name something rich people try to save money on.
Name something people enjoy watching grow.
When your car is in the repair shop, name a kind of place you ask your neighbor to drive you.
Name something people alphabetize.
Name a reason a beautiful woman marries an unattractive man.
Name an animal some people look like when they're eating.
Name something children lie to the babysitter about.
Tell me a public place that's perfect for "people watching".
Name a famous rock band from the 1960's.
Name something about their mothers that kids brag about.
Other than a swear word, name something people say when they hurt themselves.
Name something you might have trouble focusing.
Name something a surgeon might wear.
Name something people use to swat a fly?
If you were reincarnated as an animal, which animal would you like to be?
Name something people snack on between meals.
Name something people do on a tropical getaway.
Give me another word for "crazy".
Name a part of the body that you stretch.
Name something you have with chips.
Name something you find in a wheelbarrow.
Name something you associate with fitness.
Name a tradesperson who helps build a house.
Name a canned food you always have in your cupboard.
Name something you see at an afternoon tea.
Name something little kids have difficulty doing for themselves.
Name something people put on their French fries.
Name a household pet you could leave by itself for a couple of days.
Name a drink you might stir.
Name something angry wives throw at their husbands.
Name something you do when you run out of clean underwear.
Being unhappily married is like being trapped in what?
Name something specific people complain about being saddled with.
Name an animal you might see at the zoo.
Name something you associate with golf.
Name something you might find in a kid's lunch box.
Name a person people go to when they feel worried.
Name a place where you listen to music.
Name something twins have in common.
Name an animal that lives in a river.
Name a subject your friends seem to love giving free advice on.
Name something people do to cows that the cows might object to.
Name the oldest thing in your refrigerator.
Name an animal that eats meat.
Name something you might hang on a hook.
Name something you see when you look up.
Name the first thing a "Survivor" contestant might do when they get back home.
Name something that men find as exciting as they find a beautiful woman.
Name something in a house that might be made out of glass.
Name something a woman might want nearby when taking a long hot bath.
Name a modern convenience you absolutely could not live without.
Name something people bring back from Hawaii.
Name a word you would use for the sound a dog makes when it barks.
Name something you would use a pick to do.
Name something a vandal might do to your car.
Name a substance that is hard to wash off your hands.
Name something you might see someone doing on the side of the highway.
Name something that is harder to do in the snow.
Name something kept near the washing machine.
Without seeing it, name a way you can tell someone has a cat in their house.
Name a word or phrase the Post Office stamps on a package.
Name something a baseball player would hate to forget to bring with him to the ballpark.
Name a country known for its great athletes.
Besides drive it, name something you do to your car.
Name a way corn is served.
Name someplace where you might see sophisticated people.
Name something that can be cherry-flavored.
Name something on a woman's body that she might try to hide.
Name a pet that does not do a lot of tricks.
Name someone who uses a whip.
Name a high school subject that was a total waste of time.
Name something on a dog that people have clipped.
Name a movie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Name something people do not want to be late for.
Name a famous cartoon bird.
Name a famous Michael.
Name a famous bear.
Name a place where you find magazines.
Name something a woman wears that might be red.
Name a water sport in the Olympics.
Name something you do when you wake up in the middle of the night and you are not tired.
Name something you find in a mine.
Name something that gets twirled.
Name something people hope to discover by digging in the ground.
Name someone children learn from.
When people drive with one hand on the steering wheel, name something they do with their other hand.
Name something that is prickly.
Name something you might lose during a wild roller coaster ride.
Name a special request people have when making dinner reservations.
Name someone who might cry at a wedding.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "junk."
Name a word or phrase that starts with the word "baby."
Name the noisiest room in the house.
Name a famous person with the last name "Turner."
Name something chickens have that people do not.
Name a popular color for a house.
Name a slang term people use for the police.
Name something gifted children do at an early age.
Name something you might loan someone that you would not want back once they have used it.
Name another term for "detective."
Name a good gift for a friend who travels a lot.
Name a way people got around before cars were invented.
Name someone famous whose last name is King.
Name something that is harder to do if you have braces.
When you are going on a long trip, name something you only pack one of.
Name a food that comes in an "instant" form.
Besides clothing name something people keep in a closet.
Name a job where you might get wet.
Name an article of clothing that men will wear even if it has a hole in it.
Name something that people might be embarrassed to admit they wear.
Name a reason most people would not want to be a farmer.
Name something people get turned down for.
Name something people tear out of magazines.
Name something you associate with Valentine's Day.
Name a person people talk to in confidence.
Name a term used in football.
Name an activity where your fingers might get tired.
Name something little kids use in restaurants that an adult would look pretty silly using.
Name a monthly bill that is usually less than a hundred dollars.
Name a luxury people give up while they are camping in the woods.
Name a slang term for "throwing up."
Name a musical instrument heard at a wedding.
Name a type of vehicle you would hate to see parked in front of your house when you come home from work.
Tell me a name for someone who likes to steal things.
Tell me something specific that sailors get tattooed on their arms.
Name a country that is known for its spicy food.
Name a city known for its bridges.
Name something associated with Benjamin Franklin.
Name an animal that has fangs.
Name something that gets buried.
Name a place where people keep loose change.
Name something that gets smaller the more you use it.
Name a body part that people would like to have an extra one of.
Name an occupation that uses a microphone.
Name something a married couple saves from their wedding day.
Name a breed of dog that makes a good security guard.
Name something people stock up on in case of a hurricane.
Name a pasta dish that ends with the letter "I."
Name a way people get rid of mice.
Name a comic strip with a one-word title.
Name a sport where the ball might be bigger than your head.
Give me another term for "nerd."
Name something you would wear if you wanted to dress up like a nerd.
Name a bird you would not want to eat.
Name a fruit that people might add to jello.
Name a specific topping people put on yogurt.
Name something you can trim.
Name a place where a business could advertise its services.
Name something found in the Garden of Eden.
Name something specific a woman looks at when she first meets a man on a blind date.
Name a complaint people have about valet parking.
Name something that helps a baby go to sleep.
Name a football bowl game.
Name something associated with the Statue of Liberty.
Name someone who is famous for their blue eyes.
Name a feature television sets have today they did not have fifty years ago.
Name something you might see tied to the roof of someone's car.
Name a food you do not have to chew to swallow.
Name a vehicle that has lights on top of it.
Name something a tourist takes on a trip.
Name a TV show with a one-word title.
Name something you might have to watch out for while skiing.
Name a rock star who is old enough to be a grandpa.
Name a chore a person would probably never do naked.
Name a reason a husband might send his wife flowers.
Name something you might find on a miniature golf course.
Name something a vegetarian might put on a sandwich.
Name something people do right after they eat.
Name a band instrument that requires a good set of lungs.
Name a job where you might have to be good with math.
Name something only a millionaire could own.
Name something you might see inside a bank.
Name a kind of chip.
Name a place you might see a skeleton.
Name something associated with "Alice in Wonderland."
Name something that starts with the word "ice."
Name a phrase that starts with the word "prime."
Name a musical instrument people use both hands to play.
Name an animal that climbs trees.
Name a type of program you see on TV late at night.
Name an item in your house that has a lot of germs.
Name a food you would never find at an expensive restaurant.
Name something that might be on your roof.
Name a dangerous occupation.
Name something you'd hate to land on after skydiving.
Name something people hang up.
Name a slang expression for the phrase "be quiet."
Name a pet that lives a long time.
Name something a woman might put in her hair.
Name something a bathroom attendant might offer you.
Name something you might want to have straightened.
Name something you would see on a coffee table.
Name a sport that gets fans into a frenzy.
Name a good gift for a chef.
Name something in your house you hate to clean.
Name something you can find in a Denver omelet.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "egg."
Tell me a sign that it is time to enroll your dog in obedience school.
Name a children's story with a wolf in it.
Name something people trade.
Name someone you might ask directions from while driving.
Name a place that might be dimly lit.
Name something Madonna has that the average woman might envy.
Name a liquid people add to their car.
Name a gift you might give to a surfer.
Name something a person might do to a houseplant to help it grow.
Tell me the worst part about going to the beach.
Name a country that begins with the letter "S."
Name a sport that does not require a lot of equipment.
Name something Columbus might have worried about during his voyage to America.
Name something people cut in half before eating.
If a man goes by the name "Al" what might it be short for.
Name a phrase that starts with the word "palm."
Name a type of announcement you might read in the newspaper.
Name a dessert that is served warm.
Name someone who might knock on your hotel room door.
Name someone you would be embarrassed to swear in front of.
Name something a child might do right before going to bed.
Name an animal little boys use to frighten girls.
Name something you eat on a bun.
Name the worst thing about being on Noah's Ark.
Name a place you would see someone's initials.
Name something a person might worry about when speaking in front of a large group.
Name an event where you might find ticket scalpers.
Name something about home that kids miss when they are away at camp.
Name something new dads do immediately after the birth of their baby.
Name something you would probably learn how to do if you went to clown school.
Name something you might take with you on an African safari.
Name a pest you might call an exterminator to get rid of. ("Insects" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
If a 11-year-old became President, name the first thing he would outlaw.
Name something that makes a noise when you open it.
Name something that you roll up.
Name a food that is green.
Name something you might buy for a backyard barbecue.
Name something people like to drink in the morning.
Besides jewelry, name something people wear around their necks.
Name something jugglers use that could injure them if they make a mistake.
Name a song that every kid knows.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "A."
Name something you would find at the center of fancy chocolates.
Name something you do in a booth.
Name a type of game you can play at an arcade.
Name someplace where you would see a diamond.
Name a sport where players wear helmets.
Name something you can snap.
Name something people keep on a fireplace mantel.
Name the most annoying monthly bill.
Name something you pour on top of food.
Name a famous Howard.
Name someplace you would find a water fountain.
Name something vampires would not keep in their home that most people would.
Name something a guy might rent for a special date.
Name something people put in their yards to attract birds.
Give me a man's name that is 3 letters long.
Name one of Bugs Bunny's pals.
Name a patriotic song.
Name a movie that takes place on the water.
Name something people do to relax.
Besides a bathing suit name something people wear when they go swimming.
Name an annoying sound you hate to hear early in the morning.
Name something that people have trouble opening.
Name a famous man named Sean.
Name a TV show with the word "Love" in the title.
Name something that is made of gold. ("Jewelry" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name a president with a long last name.
Name a famous "Sam."
Name something that melts.
Name something a person might rush to catch.
Name something people eat with a spoon.
Name something you pay for in installments.
Name someplace you might hear the word "strike."
If you were turned into a bee, name something you would have to learn how to do.
Name a kind of collector cards people trade. ("Sports cards" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name a way you try to stay awake while driving.
Name a food you would see on a children's menu.
Name a book students keep on hand for reference.
Name a famous Sandra.
Name something you might find on your lawn that you would hate to find on your carpet.
Name the first song a kid learns how to play on a piano.
Name a musical instrument parents hate to hear their kids try to play.
Name something men fear about getting older.
Name a man who is famous for dancing in the movies.
Name a foreign country Americans feel safe visiting.
Name a reason why you might send someone a card.
Name a reason why people decide to play a certain lottery number.
Name something people push that has wheels.
Name a way someone might travel across the country.
Name something you might receive in a gift basket.
Name a job that involves a lot of cutting.
Name something that changes colors.
Name something that ends with the word "code."
Name a vegetable most people like fried.
Name something you might buy from the reference section of a bookstore.
Name a food with almost no calories.
Name an article of clothing people do not usually put on hangers.
Name something you find in an Easter basket.
Name something they give away free to attract fans at a baseball game.
Name another word for stealing.
Name someone who wears white gloves.
Name an animal you could recognize just by its nose.
Name something you can tell about a man from looking at his hands.
Name something you might need a ladder to clean.
Name a food that people often order as an appetizer.
Name something you might lose as you get older.
Name something men buy to wear that they do not try on in a fitting room.
Name a food that you would never eat with your hands.
Real or fictional name someone known for having big ears.
Name something you can spin.
Name a holiday that most people do not get off from work.
Name a good gift for a lifeguard.
Name an animal you might worry about if you were swimming in the Amazon.
Name a type of entertainer you might find on a cruise ship.
Name a game you play in a swimming pool.
Name a famous man whose last name is "Ford."
Name something you associate with the month of April.
Name an accessory you might buy at a car wash.
Name a body part that often gets broken.
Tell me a sign that you have got the flu.
Name something a detective might find at a murder scene that would make him think the killer was a hockey player.
Name a food served with melted butter on it.
Name someone you might tip at a hotel.
Name another word for "little."
Name something that might ruin a person's garden.
Name something that makes exercising a little more bearable when you are doing it.
Name something you might see at a Chinese New Year celebration.
Name something you wear that might leave a mark when you take it off.
Name a food people give as a Christmas gift.
Name something a pro athlete might keep in his locker.
Name a way a student might get to school.
Name something that tastes good with mustard.
Name something you could find in an art class.
Name something you might compare a bald guy's head to.
Name something every beauty parlor needs.
Besides clothes, name something that has a zipper.
Name a type of TV show that gets viewers so involved they talk to the screen.
Name a sport that a tough guy might think is wimpy.
Name a country that is known for its cuisine.
Name a food that does not need to be refrigerated.
Name something you might do if you locked yourself out of your house.
Although some consider it paradise, name a downside to living in Hawaii.
Name something an adult might take lessons to learn how to do.
Name something kids love to drink.
Name a kid's game that a grown man would look pretty silly playing.
Name something country singers always sing about.
Name a preprinted sign you can purchase at a hardware store.
Name a car that a wealthy person might drive.
Name a character often found in a fairy tale.
Name something you need when you do yard work.
Name a place on the body where women wear jewelry.
Name a famous "Douglas."
Name something people enjoy doing under a tree.
Name something moms make their kids wear in the winter.
Name a place Moms drive their kids after school.
Name something people always go to the same place to have done.
Name someone who might spend time in a tree.
Name a famous woman who speaks with an accent.
Name something you own that causes you aggravation.
Name something you can swallow without chewing.
Name a kind of bell.
Name something that might annoy a gardener.
Name something people associate with King Kong.
Name something a supermodel would probably never eat for dessert.
Name something that might come with your new computer.
Name a good college major if you want to make a lot of money.
Name something you need to play a game of ping pong.
Name something you need if you want to go bowling.
Name something you hold very carefully.
Name a food that causes bad breath.
Name something specific you would find in a garden shed.
Name something kids bring home from school.
Name something associated with Cleopatra.
Name something people do with both hands.
Name the heaviest item you buy at the supermarket.
Name something everyone knows about Abraham Lincoln.
Give me a nursery rhyme with the word "old" in the title.
Give me another word for a "mistake."
When people buy a new car, name something they do with their old one.
Name someone famous who plays the piano.
Name something you only use in the summertime.
Besides flour, name something bakers use.
Name something associated with Winnie the Pooh.
Besides a camera, name something a photographer uses.
Name an occasion when parents let their kids eat candy.
Name a famous fitness guru.
Name a job you should avoid if you are a lousy driver.
Real or fake, name a famous blonde.
Name something associated with David Letterman.
Name a type of toy a little boy might play with.
Name something you would want to have if you were hunting a vampire.
Name something Washington, DC has a lot of.
Name a US state that has big mountains.
Name a title given to royalty in England.
Name a bodily function a sword swallower would hate to have happen while he is performing.
Name a safety device you would find on a car.
Name something Shaquille O'Neal has a hard time fitting into.
Name something you spread on toast.
Tell me a pet that requires very little maintenance.
Name something a baseball player might be holding during a game.
Name something that is usually painted red.
Name a famous person whose last name is Allen.
Name a famous cartoon cat.
Name something you associate with Charlie Chaplin.
Name a famous woman who has had a lot of husbands.
Name something in their house that almost everyone wishes were bigger.
Name a movie that starts with the word American.
Name the toughest subject a college student can study.
Name someplace where they sell cotton candy.
Name something you need if you want to play tennis.
Name something you associate with Mickey Mouse.
Name something you might hook up to your TV.
Name a device farmers use.
Name something a baseball catcher might wear.
Name a bad job for someone who is afraid of dogs.
Real or fictional, name a famous "Billy."
Name something associated with Ireland.
Name a state where people speak with an accent.
Name something a guy might ask a girl for at a singles bar.
Name something a contestant in a beauty pageant might wear.
Name something that might fall from a tree.
Name something you might need if you break your leg.
Name an exercise high school gym teachers make you do.
Name something you need to own if you have a horse.
Name something that tastes good grilled.
Name a kind of muffin.
Tell me what kids hate most about schools.
Name a good job for someone who likes kids.
Name something most castles had.
Name an event that might require a priest.
Name something people get admitted to.
If a dog could talk, name something it might ask for.
Name a word or phrase that ends with "bell."
Name a word or phrase that ends with "bone."
Name a specific door you should knock on before entering.
Name a bug that has many legs.
Name a part of the body that often itches.
Name something people put on spaghetti.
Name a city that has a lot of hotels.
Name a food that does not cost a lot.
Name another word for "scared."
Name something in the ocean that begins with the letter "S."
Name something dogs like to mark their territory on.
Name a popular vacation city in Mexico.
Name a food kids love to eat for breakfast.
Name a famous person named "Jack."
Name a good rainy day activity.
Name something men do to get ready in the morning.
Name something that might ruin a picnic.
Name something you pop.
Name something people rub for good luck.
Name something people associate with a caveman.
Name something you would find in almost every room of a house.
Name a reason why a wedding might be canceled.
Name something that pours out thick.
Name a famous Charlie.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "M."
Name a kind of bagel.
Name a food that gets chopped.
Name a bird you would never think of eating.
Name a book that is found in most people's homes.
Name something that is purple.
Name a superpower you wish you had.
Name something you associate with Albert Einstein.
Name something you need to bake a cake.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "hot."
Name a complaint someone might have about a movie theater concession stand.
Name an animal that would make a boring pet.
Besides hot dogs name something a hot dog vendor might have on his cart.
Name something that gets engraved.
Name something you should not do right after you eat.
Name something people can break.
Name something a man might buy to improve his looks.
Name something that might ruin a camping trip.
Name a reason why a man might be embarrassed to go swimming.
Name a profession where you might lose a finger.
Name something a supermodel has to do to maintain her good looks.
Name something you spend a lot of money on during a vacation.
Name an occupation with men that are muscular.
Name an activity you can do in the ocean but you cannot do in a swimming pool.
Name something you might find in a barn.
Name something an artist uses.
Name something embarrassing that might happen while you are laughing.
Name a really big state.
Name something people suck on.
Name a place where you could see a lot of fit people.
Name a place where you see a lot of mirrors.
Name a really small state.
Name something a police detective might keep in his pocket.
Name a food that comes on a stick.
Name something that is advertised on billboards.
Name something you would expect to see a lot of in Hawaii.
Name something horses like to eat.
Name something that would be inappropriate to wear to a wedding.
Name something parents buy for their first baby that they save and use for their next one.
Name something associated with a mummy.
Name a famous pig.
Name something you might see in a funeral home that you would not want to see in your own home.
Name an occupation where you have to keep secrets.
Name a reason you might be up on your roof.
Name a word people use in the stock market.
Name something that siblings compete over.
Name something you might clip out of the newspaper.
Name a chore a farmer might have to do.
Name something people dislike about a sleeper sofa.
Name something you might see pictured on a postage stamp.
Name an article of clothing a restaurant might require its customers to wear.
Name something people do with snow.
Name a reason some people do not like to go to the dentist.
Name something embarrassing that might happen to a man while giving a speech.
Name something that is found in a burrito.
Name something people might do on Memorial Day.
Name a silly souvenir people bring back from vacation.
Name a disease kids get a shot to prevent.
Name a place where you can always find a taxi.
Name a kind of oil people use to cook with.
Name someone who wears white clothes.
Real or fictional name of someone who has a lot of muscles.
Name something a hotel might offer for free.
Name the worst food to eat if you are on a diet. ("Dessert" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name something associated with Goldilocks.
Name something you would hate to walk on with your bare feet.
Name something you might rent from a party store.
Name something a dog might dream about.
Name a state known for having lots of sunshine.
Name something you might see at a high school homecoming.
Name an instrument you might hear in a rock band.
Name something you associate with Snow White.
Name something people run out of in a laundromat.
Name something that can get tangled.
Name something you wear when it is hot.
Name something people race.
Name a musical instrument you would see in most jazz bands.
Name a state that is very humid.
Name a place people like to read the newspaper.
Name something cats have that people do not.
Name something people do on the Fourth of July.
Name someone famous who rode a horse.
Name something guests do at a wedding reception.
Name a good occupation if you are good at lying.
Name something you would need a lot of if you were a cheerleader.
Name something you might buy at a hospital gift shop.
Tell me something you cannot drive your car without.
Name a complaint you might have about your dry cleaner.
Name something that has holes in it.
Name a business that is open every day of the year.
Name something that begins with the word "bird."
Name a food New York is famous for.
Name a place people go on their honeymoon.
Name something you need to knit a sweater.
Name a breed of dog that a little kid might be afraid of.
Give me a man's name that rhymes with "bed."
Name something you need to make a banana split.
Name something a person might do in a talent contest.
Name something listed on everyone's driver's license.
Name a piece of jewelry both men and women wear.
Name an occasion when you hear a countdown.
Name a holiday when people put a flag in front of their house.
Name a big expense associated with a wedding.
Name something you would see at a gas station.
Name something you might put on top of a salad.
Name a city in Florida.
Name a Mexican food made with a tortilla.
Name something you associate with Sylvester Stallone.
Name a person whose last name is Johnson.
Name something people donate to the Red Cross.
Name something associated with "Star Trek."
Name something found in a Grade Three classroom.
Name the loudest animal at the zoo.
Name a healthy snack a mom might give to her child.
Name a profession where you might be called a shark.
Name an animal you would feed at a petting zoo.
Name something people do while the doctor gives them a shot.
Name a part of the fish you do not usually eat.
Name a fruit that comes from a can.
Name a character from "The Simpsons."
Name something a cowboy carries with him on his horse.
Name a state that has a lot of desert.
Name something you would find in a chef salad.
Name something tourists see while visiting Italy.
Name something associated with Tom Sawyer.
Name an animal you would see in the mountains.
Name something a movie director might yell on set.
Name something you would see at every college football game.
Name something associated with Aladdin.
Name something you would hate to run of out.
Name something specific people might take off before they go to bed.
Name a magazine that has news about celebrities.
Name a souvenir you can buy at a rock concert.
Name something in the sky that makes people look up.
Name an ingredient you would find in trail mix.
Name a food Boston is known for.
Name a course people bring to a pot luck dinner.
Name an appliance you would hate to live without.
Name something that howls.
Name a U.S. city that starts with the letter "D."
Name a famous Tiger.
Name an expensive cut of beef.
Name an exercise that burns a lot of calories.
Name a famous short person.
Name something people keep in a kitchen canister.
Name a way you can tell a carton of milk has gone bad.
Name something that has a clock on it.
Name something Japan is famous for.
Name a place you would see someone wearing a towel.
Name something Jay Leno has more of than the average man.
Name something teenage girls spend a lot of money on.
Name something every superhero needs.
Name something associated with Prince Charles.
Name a food that is better when it is crisp.
Name a fruit people slice.
Name something typically made of porcelain.
Name a fruit they make jelly out of.
Name a fruit you might find in a cake.
Name something associated with Spider-Man.
Name something you would see in a hospital.
Name an animal that lives in the cold.
Besides drinking it name something people use water for every day.
Name something one of the characters from the Wizard of Oz wanted to get.
Name something you would see a lot of in California.
Name a school supply kids are always running out of.
Name something specific that shines at night.
Name something people measure by the spoonful.
Name a holiday when you would see a parade.
Name an article of clothing that you would hate to shrink in the dryer.
Name something you would find under the hood of your car.
Name something you see at a rodeo.
Name something people do to eliminate body odor.
Name a famous "Adam."
Name something people let soak overnight.
Name something you need when you are moving.
Name a type of vehicle where you usually sit in the back.
Name something people have in their den.
Name a household item people often buy on credit.
Name something people serve with biscuits.
Name something people do to unclog a sink.
Name something you would need if you were going to start your own fire department.
Name a famous Andy.
Name something kids love to jump on.
Name a card game that is really easy to learn.
Name a state that has a really long name.
Name something you would need if you wanted to dress up like Abraham Lincoln.
Name the most difficult part of learning to drive.
Name something people might plug in.
Name a fruit that is often served in a bowl.
If babies could talk, name something they might ask for.
Name a famous person named Judy.
Name a specific part of Batman's costume.
Name someplace where you might have a picnic.
Name something you should not take away from a baby unless you enjoy the sound of screaming.
Name an animal that could fit in the palm of your hand.
Name something a man might wear only on special occasions.
Name something in your home you probably turn on every day.
Name a bird with really long legs.
Name something people bring home with them from a wedding.
Name a game kids play in the park.
Name something you might need if you own a race horse.
Name something people skip.
Name something associated with "David Hasselhoff."
Name a vegetable that goes great with party dip.
Name a job you might get at a hospital.
Name something you might see in a jungle.
Name a soup that begins with "Cream of."
Name someone who works in a courtroom.
Name a holiday when you might get dressed up.
Name something people use to keep their hair in place.
Tell me a woman's name that starts with the letter "J."
Name a color M&M's come in.
Name something you associate with Eve from the Bible.
Name something you would need in order to play a game of basketball.
Name someplace a child goes for the first time that might be traumatic.
Name something you wear that might be plaid.
Name something people wear that is adjustable.
Name something the country of China is known for.
Besides blueberry, name a kind of muffin people eat at breakfast.
Name something people eat with chili.
Name something people serve at elegant parties.
Name a famous Dan.
Name a city where it rains a lot.
Name a type of food you'd buy from a supermarket's freezer section.
Name something you might see in a kid's mouth.
Name something associated with Snoopy.
Name a kind of boat you do not have to be rich to own.
Name a place where several strangers might sleep in the same room.
Name something you would hate to see crawling around in your kitchen.
Name a fruit you have to cut open to eat.
Name something they sell at a survival store.
Name something that buzzes.
Name a vehicle that would be hard to learn how to operate.
Name something most people do not miss about high school.
Name a musical instrument you will hardly ever see in a rock band.
Name something it feels great to walk on in your bare feet.
Name a famous "Newton."
Name a job title someone might have at a big company.
Name something you might bring to someone who is sick.
Name something people associate with Sesame Street.
Name something you're likely to see in a delivery room.
Name a famous Shakespeare play that's been turned into a movie.
Name something that comes in a jar.
Name a food you're likely to find at a Super Bowl party.
Name a kind of weather that would cause you not to see as well.
Name a part of his body a skinny guy might want to exercise and build up.
Name a state that gets a lot of tourists.
Name an animal that ruins a farmer's crops.
Name something you need to be a belly dancer.
Name a famous store in New York City.
Name something that has springs in it.
Name something the city of Atlanta is known for.
Name something that requires wind to work.
Name something made from tomatoes.
Name an animal you might hear in the forest at night.
Name something women spend more time doing than men.
Name something school kids sell door to door.
Tell me which superhero has the coolest costume.
Name something in an office that drives people crazy when it is not working.
Name something people do when they see a horror movie.
Tell me a man's name that starts with the letter "P."
Name something a wealthy person might have in their house that you wish you had.
Name a spice a chef probably uses a lot of.
Name a sport that is usually played in front of large crowds.
Name a part of the body that people love to have massaged.
Name a famous TV family.
Name something you would see at a fancy restaurant you would never see at McDonald's.
Tell me a woman's name that starts with the letter "L."
Name a children's story that has a witch in it.
Name something people put in brownies.
Name someplace you go where people always seem to be in a hurry.
Name a kind of hoop.
Name something people consider snack food.
Name something you'd see a lot of at Disneyland.
Name something that has nuts in it.
Besides grapes, name a food that comes in several different colors.
Name something you need if you want to go fishing.
Name something a man with a toupee has to be very careful doing.
Name something no marriage ceremony would be complete without.
Name something a biker dude would look silly riding.
Name a form of transportation you wouldn't want to use in a rain storm.
Name something associated with the Addams Family.
Name something you might fold up.
Past or present, name a famous New York Yankee.
Name a comedian who is known for his funny monologues.
Name a famous man named Hugh.
According to women: What is something men think they know more about than they do?
Name a bug that makes some women scream.
Name something you would need if you wanted to be a lawyer.
Name someplace little kids pee that they are not supposed to.
Name something a King would hate to be without.
Name something you should wear scuba diving.
Name a country where soccer is really popular.
Name a popular type of Girl Scout cookie.
Name a famous rabbit.
Name someone who uses a baton.
Name something associated with Humpty Dumpty.
Name a food dieters eat a lot of.
Name a famous Carey.
Name something you might see at the North Pole.
Name a slang expression for eating a lot.
Name a sitcom that was popular in the '80s.
Name a word or phrase that rhymes with "lunch."
Name a state where they grow a lot of fruit.
Name something people do not clean very often.
Name a reason school might be closed.
Name something a bird might do during a magicians act that could ruin it.
Name a herb people cook with.
Name a famous tennis player.
Name a makeup women apply to their face.
Name a gift that little kids hate to get for Christmas.
Name something two dogs might fight over.
Name a vegetable a parent forces a child to eat.
Name something that begins with the word "sour."
Name something specific in your home you might get insured.
Name a drink people have with breakfast.
Name a good food to throw in a food fight.
Name something a car might be missing that would make it hard to drive.
Name something a man might do all day long if his wife let him.
Name a song everybody knows.
Name a U.S. city that is on the ocean.
Name a song by Madonna that everyone knows.
Name a famous all-boy band.
Name a part of your car that most people have heard of but have no idea what it does.
Name a pest that might bother you when you eat outdoors.
Name a relative you only see during the holidays.
Name the most famous street in the United States.
Name something you might serve a dinner guest before the main course.
Besides hamburger, name an ingredient you would find in hamburger helper.
According to women: What is something specific women think they know more about than men?
Name an appliance you would probably try to repair yourself.
Name something you would need if you wanted to play a game of water polo.
Name a city that has great sports fans.
Name something people know about Dracula.
Besides chicken, name something you associate with Kentucky Fried Chicken.
Name something a bird watcher carries with them.
Name something Donald Duck does that most ducks do not.
Name a famous actor named Kevin.
Name a type of chocolate.
Name a job an athlete might have after they retire.
Name a job mostly performed by men.
Name something people borrow money to pay for.
Name something people go to a professional to have cleaned.
Name something that starts with the word "goose."
Besides acting, name a profession where the men are good looking.
Name a good gift for a kid who loves science.
Tell me a woman's name that starts with the letter "K."
Besides a football game, name an event that might be held in a football stadium.
Name an animal you would be surprised to see at the zoo.
Name an important document you would hate to lose in a fire.
Name an animal that can live in the cold.
Name a profession that hires good looking people.
Name a musical instrument you could not fit into a suitcase.
Name a sign that your girlfriend might be turning into a cat.
Name a take-out food a family might have for dinner.
Name a reason a kid might have to raise his hand up in class.
Name something you might buy at the airport while waiting for your flight to take off.
Name a type of fruit a kid might have in his lunch bag.
Name a famous man whose first name is Roger.
Name a food that comes in packs of six or more.
Name a way a rock band might travel to a gig.
Name something you might cut out of your morning routine if you were in a big hurry.
Name something that is fragile.
Name the greatest invention ever.
Name an exhibit you expect to see at a country fair.
Name a type of food you would find at every breakfast buffet.
Besides dishes, name something you might put in your dishwasher.
Name a fruit you can buy in the frozen food section.
Name a famous woman named Sally.
Name a TV show that focuses on Hollywood gossip.
Name something a person might do too much of while on vacation.
Name an appliance you have in your home that your grandparents did not.
Name a company that is known for making cookies.
Name another word for a restaurant.
Name something that parents encourage children to do.
Name something people go to that might be sold out.
Name something that might be self-service.
Name a sport where the referee could get hurt.
Name a fairy tale with a woman's name in the title.
Name a famous Native American kids learn about at school.
Name something a real car has that a soap box derby car might also have.
Besides the ball name something you need to play baseball.
Name something that starts with the word "social."
Name something people keep in a shed.
Name a board game that has a lot of rules.
Name a sport women think is sexy to watch.
Name a shape Christmas cookies come in.
Name something that has the word "shuttle" in it.
Name something that will melt if you leave it in the sun too long.
Name something you might see in a prison cell.
Name someplace you might call ahead so you will not have to wait as long.
Name something cats love to play with.
Name someone who might help a high school student with his homework.
Name a famous person whose last name is Marx.
Name a type of salad people eat at a picnic.
Name an emotion people convey with a facial expression.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "coffee."
Name an item a girl might keep an extra one of at her boyfriend's house.
Name something around your house that might be made of bricks.
Name something a really smart little boy might want to be when he grows up.
Name something people associate with Yankee Doodle.
If you made a Zorro doll, name something it might come with.
Name something you would see in a hospital emergency room.
Without swearing, tell me a word people say right after they have made a mistake.
If you spent a summer in Europe, name a country you would definitely want to visit.
Name something Fred Flintstone has that real cavemen did not.
Name something that might be polluted.
Name someone you might see in a parade.
Name something a gardener might cut while he's on the job.
Name a piece of equipment a plastic surgeon might use if he was going to give Mount Rushmore a face-lift.
Name something that is made out of aluminum.
Name something you might get hit with if you were at the park.
Tell me the month when you would use your heater the most.
Name a famous landmark that immediately tells you what city you are in.
Name something people might mark on their calendar every year.
Name a holiday when people have parties.
Name a kitchen appliance that might be built-in.
Name something you would find in a "lost and found" box.
Besides orange, name a juice people like to have with breakfast.
Name an animal that has a lot of teeth.
Name something you would see on an envelope.
Past or present, name a movie about space aliens.
Name something people know about Cher.
Name something you drink that makes your tongue red.
Name something that might blow off you on a windy day.
Name a bug that does not fly.
Name something that is easy to leave behind in a laundry room.
Name something people hate about taking the bus.
Name a decision people might have second thoughts about.
Name something people wear when going on a hike.
Name someone you would feel guilty lying to.
Name a cartoon character who is very fast.
Name an occasion when you hope a lot of people show up.
Name something the sheriff wears in a Western movie.
Name something George Washington wore that most men today do not.
Name a hobby where you might use a magnifying glass.
Name something a woman might forget to do if she was extremely late for a date.
Tell me a hot dog topping that some people do not like.
Tell me a nickname for a man named Robert.
Name an animal with big teeth.
Name a fairy tale character Britney Spears could play in a movie.
Name something extra you might keep in your house for an overnight guest.
Name something at the store you would find on the same aisle as the toothpaste.
Name something people know about skunks.
Name something a person might do if they were having a hard time waking up in the morning.
Name something you might try not to park your car next to.
Name something a flight attendant might not give you if she did not like you.
Name the section of the newspaper people spend the most time reading.
Name something every little league team needs.
Name a type of jewelry you would be more likely to see a woman wearing than a man.
Name a type of clock.
Name something a student might forget to bring to school.
Name something you associate with Dorothy from "The Wizard of Oz."
Name something that starts with the word "Snow."
Name something that a child might get attached to and have a hard time giving up.
Name an animal that a zoo usually has a lot of.
Name something you would find on a Reuben sandwich.
Name someone who is famous for their role in the American Revolution.
Name something that has changed about a man's appearance that would cause others not to recognize him at a class reunion.
Besides President, tell me the title of someone who leads a country.
Name something your co-workers might ask you to chip money in for.
Name the sport that has the best-looking men.
Name a word you hear almost every cheerleader say at a high school football game.
Name something you would not want to break down just before relatives come to stay with you.
Name a type of baby food that looks gross but babies love.
Without seeing the baby, name a way you can tell a couple has a newborn in the house.
Name an animal that is extinct.
Name a children's TV show that teaches them something.
Name something you might have with orange juice. ("Breakfast" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name a vegetable moms make their kids eat because it is good for them.
Name something specific a kid might have to stay after school to do.
Name a color Skittles come in.
Name the messiest room in a family's house.
Besides the President, name a powerful position in the U.S. Government.
Name an animal that eats mice.
Besides his parents, name something a child might mention in his bedtime prayers.
Name something you would see in a beauty parlor that you would not see in a funeral parlor.
Name a planet that astronauts will probably never visit.
Name something a computer has that a typewriter does not.
Name something that a nurse usually does before the doctor comes in for an appointment.
Name a flavor of potato chips some people do not like.
Tell me someone people might keep a picture of next to their bed.
Name a command people give their dogs that would make a real person very angry if you gave it to them.
Name something people clip out of the newspaper.
Name something people do to prepare for a vacation.
If you bought a souvenir t-shirt from New York, name something that might be pictured on it.
Name something a person might do right after eating a big Thanksgiving dinner.
Name a sport you would be surprised to see a pregnant woman playing.
Name a sport where a spectator might get hit by something.
Name a children's story that features a guy named "Jack."
Name a fruit that is about as big as your head.
Name another word for "Intelligent."
If you went to a costume party as your favorite fast food, name something you would be dressed like.
Name something that most cars have today that you would not find in Fred Flintstone's car.
Name something people bungee jump off of.
Name a cartoon character you can have your picture taken with at Disneyland.
Name a famous composer whose music is performed by a symphony orchestra.
Name a city in Florida that attracts a lot of tourists.
Name something people take from hotels that you would be surprised to find out a houseguest took from you.
Name a fruit you never buy just one of.
Name something a gardener uses that you would be scared to see your hairstylist using.
Name something that is on top of a lot of Italian food.
Name a planet you would recognize just by looking at a picture of it.
Name something on a Swiss Army knife that you would be surprised to see the Swiss Army fighting with.
Name a state where a lot of people have suntans.
Tell me a bad job for someone who hates horses.
What is the worst place a couple could go on their honeymoon.
Name something you would see a lot of in Kansas.
Besides potatoes, name something you would find in a potato salad.
Besides trains, name something you would see at a train station.
Name something people buy for their patio.
Name something that tastes best with ketchup on it.
Name an animal most people never want to touch.
Name an animal that you are surprised that some people keep as a pet.
If a bad magician yanked a tablecloth from a fully set table, name something that might hit the ground.
Name something a robber would hate to have happen to his car while he was inside robbing a bank.
Name something you do to keep burglars out of your house that does not seem to work on the Tooth Fairy.
Besides keys, name something people might have on their keychain.
Tell me another word for "unhappy."
If you hired a gourmet chef to cook for you, name a complaint he might have about your kitchen.
Name a food that turns brown when it is not fresh.
Besides apple, name the most popular pie for dessert.
Name something a hunter might use to catch an animal that would never work too well for catching a criminal.
Name a sport where you get to sit down a lot.
If there were a store called "Bodybuilders-R-Us," name something you might be able to buy there.
Name something a Ken doll has that the average guy probably wishes he had too.
If a coal miner lived in a mine, name something he would have to get used to doing in the dark.
Name something that might not look right if you got ready without looking in the mirror.
Name a sport which is not played in the Olympics.
Name something you might find right next to the bathtub.
Name a cartoon TV show that grown-ups like watching too.
Name something you use when you are cleaning the house.
Name something in your kitchen you would hate to have break before your dinner party.
Name something a gardener does to a lawn that you would not do to a grass skirt.
Name something that might be stuffed inside a ravioli. ("Meat" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name something people pour milk in at breakfast.
Name something a person might do before going to bed that would make it hard for them to get right to sleep.
Name something people do to a beach ball that they would not want someone to do to them.
Name a place game shows give away trips to.
Tell me a common name parents give their sons.
Name something a kid might dress up as for his school's Thanksgiving pageant.
Name a category in Trivial Pursuit.
Name something women use that comes in different colors. ("Makeup" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name a popular color for bedsheets.
Name something people have for breakfast that is "instant."
Name something on your car you would be horrified to find out was not working while you are driving.
Name a spice that smells great while you are cooking.
Give me a name you hear a lot in the Bible.
Give me a nickname for someone named "Elizabeth."
Name a section of the newspaper most people do not read every day.
Name something siblings might have to share.
Past or present, name a famous blonde who proves blondes really do have more fun.
Name something about a flight you would be surprised to hear a passenger say was "good."
Name something that you used to have to go to a store for that you can now buy on the internet.
Name a piece of laundry a woman might have drying on her shower rod.
Name something from your bathroom that you might bring on a camping trip.
Name something you might have to wait a long time for your computer to do.
Name a country that has a lot of desert.
Name a country the U.S. imports a lot of things from.
Name something a little kid might do on the furniture that would tick off his parents.
When Hugh Hefner dies name something he might ask to be buried with.
Name a fairy tale that has been told for generations.
Name something a person cannot legally do without a license.
Besides plastic surgery, name something women can do to dramatically change her appearance.
Name something a tourist hopes to see while visiting London.
Name somewhere you might see a marching band.
Name something a real king has that Don King does not.
Name a superhero that you would love to have on your side in a fight.
Name something that just about everybody has a jar of in their refrigerator.
Name a type of ball you would be surprised to see a golfer tee off with.
Name a beverage that is served at a kid's birthday party.
Name something women do to their hair.
Name a word a judge might yell out during a tennis match.
If a witch was not paying attention to where she was flying, name something she might crash into.
Name a musical instrument that is too big to carry on an airplane.
If you had a keen sense of smell, name a job you would not have.
Name a color the sky turns when the weather gets bad.
Name something in your car you can control with the push of a button.
Name a city in Canada that everybody has heard of.
Name a type of tree that grows very tall.
Name a way you can tell that a fruit has gone bad.
Name something in your home you leave plugged in all the time.
Name an animal you would find in a petting zoo.
Name something about a person you might describe as "sweet."
Name something you might do when your hair is a mess.
Name something you might take with you for an overnight stay at the hospital.
Name a feature on your car that would be nice to have on a supermarket shopping cart.
Name a tool a tow truck driver carries with him.
Name a type of shoe you might not wear socks with.
Name something on your face that you have two of.
At a fancy party, name something you would expect to find served on a cracker.
Name something a germ freak might take from his own kitchen so he does not have to use the one at a restaurant.
Name an American city that foreign tourists love to visit.
Name something in your house you might program to automatically turn on.
Name something students sell to raise money for a class trip.
Name the most expensive item in an office.
Name something a news reporter might carry on the job.
Name a purchase you should consult your spouse about before making.
Name something a hospital uses to transport patients.
Name a character Bugs Bunny has been known to fight with.
Name a reason a baby might be cranky that is also a reason some grown-ups are cranky.
Name something a kid in kindergarten might come home with all over his hands.
Name something kids buy at a college campus store.
Name a famous beauty pageant.
Name something people use a coupon for.
Name something people know about Bart Simpson.
Name a fruit that lollipops are flavored like.
When someone says they are visiting 'The South,' tell me a state they might be going to.
Name something you would need to make spaghetti sauce.
Name something an actress has done for her by other people that the average woman might envy.
Name a type of fruit you could grow on a tree in your backyard.
Name something a person might lie about in their resume.
Name an animal that many people think of as a pest.
Name something you had better know how to do if you want to pass the 2nd grade.
Name something the police might use when searching for something.
Name a national holiday where no gifts are exchanged.
Name a place on a man's face he often nicks while shaving.
Name something a police officer had to give up when they retire.
According to women: What is something that makes a man unsexy?
In your opinion, which occupation has the most masculine men?
Name something your kid could trade with another kid.
According to college students: Name the one thing from home you miss the most.
Name a reason people prefer to live in small towns rather than big cities.
Name something you try out before buying.
Name an occupation where people always ask you for free advice.
Besides food and drink, name something that people serve.
Name something you hang in your house.
Name a job where your clothes get really dirty.
Name something the family takes turns using.
According to married women: What do you do while your husband watches sports on TV?
Name a play written by Shakespeare.
Name something you might "settle" for even if it is not the perfect one for you.
Name something specific that you turn over.
Name a sport that does not contain the word "ball."
Name something Chicago is famous for.
Name an occasion or event after which you might be broke.
Name a holiday whose true meaning people forget.
Name a titled section in a video rental store.
Name a kind of place that kids must be reminded to mind their manners.
When Batman retires, name something he will probably give to Robin.
Name something minor that to a teenager seems like a major disaster.
Name something people do while driving even though they know they should not.
According to women: Name something your husband hates about your friends.
In your fantasies, name something you do to your boss.
Name one thing about Harry Potter.
Name a subject on which people are always giving unwanted advice.
If you won the lottery, name something you might go to your job to do.
Name a popular way for people to exercise.
Name something people sterilize.
Name something you would hate to find out the hotel you are staying in just ran out of.
Besides buying one, name a way someone might be able to get a car.
Name something that has a seat.
Name something many people postpone doing for as long as possible.
Name something you would do if you were imitating a cat.
Name something that may be too hot to touch.
Name a famous judge.
In one word describe your feet.
Name a famous "Jerry."
Name something that falls from the sky.
Name a sport that requires running very fast.
Name a type of transportation that has less than 4 wheels.
Tell me an animal that has a reputation for being slow.
Which U.S. city would you most be afraid to live in?
Name something schools sell to raise money.
Name an animal which is often used to describe a person.
Name something people try to keep when they get divorced.
Name a sport where you still see athletes playing after they are forty.
Name a happy occasion when people propose a toast.
Name an occupation which requires wearing something on your head.
Name something a five year old might pray for.
Name an occupation whose members wear business suits.
Name a sport where people wear helmets.
Name America's most famous department store.
Give me a word that rhymes with "Pun."
Name something that you can find in the sky that God did not put there.
Name a word that rhymes with "first."
Name something people yell at that cannot yell back.
Name something that people twist.
Name a kind of place that is easier to get into than to get out of.
Name a famous person, living or dead, whose last name is "Collins."
Name a place that might have a waiting list.
According to married women: Name something a husband better not buy without consulting them first.
Name something in your house that has faded.
Name something you spend far too much time doing.
Name something some wives are criticized for doing in the middle of the day.
Name something in your wallet that has your name on it.
Name the most germ-infested object in a household kitchen.
Name something a woman should change after getting divorced.
Name something teenagers are embarrassed to be seen doing with their families.
Name a famous "Willy" or "Willie."
Name a type of junk food.
Name a sport that is criticized for being too violent.
Name a sea creature you should be afraid of.
Name something you would find on a hotel maid's cart.
Name something that people hang up.
Name the most famous couple in America.
According to men: What do some women do way too fast?
Name something people eat that starts with the letter "P."
Name something a wife might be desperate for.
Name a food that has a lot of fiber.
When toddlers feed themselves where does most of the food go?
According to women: What do men consider more important than marriage?
Name something about their jobs that teachers hate.
Name a job people apply for at a hotel.
Give me a word or phrase that begins with "heart."
Past or present, name an educational TV program for children.
Name a place you wouldn't want to receive a cell phone call.
What is the biggest complaint that people have about public transportation?
Name something you could ask during a job interview that might make the person think twice about hiring you.
Name something people do to make their feet feel good.
Name a reason why you might have to cut your vacation short.
Tell me a country that starts with the letter "A."
Name something that Columbus needed to discover America.
Give me another word for "mad."
Name a food that you only eat at restaurants because you do not know how to cook it.
Name someone you lie to because they cannot handle the truth.
Tell me something people love to catch other people doing.
Name something audience members do when they hate a movie.
Name a song with the color "yellow" in its title.
Name something you would hate to see your cat using as a litter box.
Name a sport where the athletes look like they should be in Weight Watchers.
According to men: Name something a woman would have a hard time going a whole week without doing.
Name something that can turn itself on.
A man can never have too many power tools. What is something a woman can never have too many of?
Name something bored dogs do when their owner is gone for the day.
Name a job that requires a name tag.
Name something embarrassing that can happen to you when you go bowling.
Tell me a reason why a couple might fight on their anniversary.
Which U.S. state do you think has the most beautiful women?
Name a celebrity, male or female, who is openly gay.
According to men: When you see a woman smiling, name something she is probably smiling about.
Name an activity you use your hips to do.
Name something people worry about whether they are rich or poor.
Name something most men cannot resist taking a look at.
Name something you would hate to run out of when you go camping.
When Paris Hilton was a baby, what do you think her first word was?
Name something miners dig for.
Name something men lose interest in when they fall in love.
Name something people know about Fred Flintstone.
When a child uses a dirty word, name someplace or someone he might tell his mom he heard it from.
Name a food you buy at a convenience store that looks like it has been under the heat lamp for weeks.
According to married men: Name something your father-in-law is most critical about.
According to married women: If you did not cook for your husband, what would he do?
According to single men: Name something you would hate to run out of on a date.
Tell me one fact about Bond, James Bond.
Name something associated with a witch.
According to women: Name something you would hate to accidentally drop your ring into.
Besides bread, name something people put peanut butter on.
Give me a nickname short people get tired of hearing.
Name something a husband hopes his wife doesn't tell him to get rid of.
Name an occupation that might require you to be sneaky.
Name an action star who could use acting lessons.
Tell me something that comes in pairs.
According to women: What would you miss most if men disappeared from Earth?
Name something your parents still give you.
Name something you thought existed when you were a child.
Name something that dries up when it gets old.
According to single men: Name something you hate women giving you advice about.
Name a special feature people look for when renting an apartment.
Name something that will last a long time if you take good care of it.
Name something a man should really avoid talking about with a woman.
Name someone who has to listen to problems all day long.
Name something men put off doing for as long as they can.
What would people be forced to do if television did not exist.
Name something you might be holding in your hand at the airport.
Name something a person with long fingernails might hurt themselves doing.
Name something New Yorkers make fun of Californians about.
According to women: Name something you do to let your man know you are mad at him.
Name a complaint people have about their hairdressers.
Name an animal with a color in its name.
Other than money, name a reason you would switch jobs.
Name something a man with a big belly looks like he just swallowed.
Fill in the blank: A woman should not judge a man by his ______.
Other than a doctor, name an occupation that makes house calls.
Besides an inch, name another measurement of distance.
Name a specific type of apple.
Name something you should bring with you on a long flight to make the trip bearable.
Name something you hate waiting for.
Tell me something men do to combat hair loss.
Name something people do before getting out of bed in the morning.
Name a worry that causes you to eat non-stop.
What do you do when someone cuts in front of you in line?
Name something people use at night that contains the word "night."
Name something that people in every country have their own way of doing.
Some men are placing want ads for wives. Name one of the job requirements that might be listed.
Name something absent-minded people are always looking for.
Name something you are worried you do not get enough of.
Name something you do every day that you hate.
Name something people buy that begins with the word "Back."
Name something a newly divorced man might do for the first time in years.
Name a subject people know lots of trivia about.
Name something in your home you might break if you were very upset.
Name a reason you might suspect your friend is pregnant.
Besides his appearance, name something that makes a man seem sexy.
Name something you can do to have a good time when you are by yourself.
Name something a woman can do in one day to make herself more attractive.
After a dentist appointment, name something that is hard to do when your mouth is numb from novocaine.
Name a chore that gives people as good a workout as going to the gym.
Name something a woman might want to keep hidden if she lies about her age.
Name a dream about the future that couples "pillow talk" about.
Name something that makes a man feel free.
Name an animal sound you hear in a barnyard.
Name a reason people all over the world want to move to America.
Name a country that ends with "land."
Name something that people have "just one more" of.
Name the worst thing to fall off of.
Name something about a person that might cause a judge to give him or her a break when sentencing.
Name something that people think is a man's job.
Name something that can never be long enough.
Name something people might not want because it is too much responsibility.
Name a job in which you have to question the honesty of others.
Name the day of the week men are most likely to get heart attacks.
Name something you would find on the floor of a movie theater.
Name something people save because it has sentimental value.
According to women: Name a place you'd want a gorgeous man to whisk you away to.
Name something that receives a grade.
Name something everyone has that breaks at some point.
Name a product that might be disposable.
Name something a surfer would not want to hit with his surfboard.
Name something that has a lot of twists and turns.
Fill in the blank: You may not get a job because the boss does not like your ______.
Name an impulse purchase you might make because they are practically giving it away.
In what country do Americans get the best buys when shopping for clothing?
Name a specific part of your body that looks terrible first thing in the morning.
Name something that carries a big load.
Name a fruit you eat for dessert.
Name the one thing that parents always say they want their children to give them.
Name something it takes people years to save for.
Name a supply that office managers frequently re-order.
Name something a mother might give the kids more of than a father would.
According to men: You should never interrupt a woman when she is ________.
Name a holiday that people wear special colors for.
According to single men: What is the one thing you might want to know when you meet a woman, but do not have the nerve to ask?
Name a reason that church bells ring.
Name something in your home you might catch in a trap.
What do men and women wear the most during the summer?
What do you think your occupation would be if you had a genius IQ?
Name something specific you take off when you get home so you will be more comfortable.
If you put food outside for a stray cat, name another animal that might eat it.
Living or dead, name a celebrity that is a great dancer.
To whom do you give most of your hard-earned money?
Name something people put in or on their ears to listen to it.
Name a foreign language that every President should know.
Name something America is running out of.
Name a profession that people get overpaid for.
According to women: What is the most beautiful thing you have?
Name an occupation where women are muscular.
Name a thing that has a host.
Name something you would like taken away from CEO's of big companies.
Tell me something the Queen of England has a lot of.
Name a card game that is difficult to learn.
Name something you cannot bear the thought of doing when you have the flu.
When you think of who made America great, which President comes to mind?
Which U.S. President has provided comedians with the best material?
Name a famous woman who seems to intimidate American men.
Real or fictional, name a famous dog.
Name a bad occupation for someone who easily gets the giggles.
Name something at which many people fail the first time they try it.
Name something kids might do for their very first job.
Name a televised event that people throw parties to watch.
Name something you don't have to ask the boss for if you work for yourself.
Name a popular all-female singing group.
Name a famous woman even Oprah might be jealous of.
What female talk show host do you think is the most annoying to men?
Name something that married women might be sick of doing.
Name a magazine that has a lot of photographs.
Past or present, name a TV show about police.
Name something a church might be filled with.
Name something that starts with "the gift of ______."
Name something you would prefer to do on Sunday morning instead of going to church.
Name a state where disaster could strike at any time.
Name something that might be half-black and half-white.
Name a wild animal you would find living in cities.
Name a way you can tell a house had been abandoned.
Name something there would be a lot of at a celebrity wedding.
Name something you should always try to buy for less than the listed price.
Name something that is hard for a woman to do when she is pregnant.
Name the smartest woodland animals.
Name a holiday that might be nice to spend alone for a change.
Name something husbands and wives should take turns doing.
Name something other than a person that could use a facelift.
Name an occupation that requires wearing gloves on the job.
Name an occupation many woman fantasize about having.
Name something that growls.
Name a good habit that little kids are encouraged to develop.
Name something wives do to try to please their mother-in-law.
Name a creature with two legs.
Name an occupation whose members are linked to scandals.
Name a tiny creature which frightens big people.
Name something obnoxious that gum chewers do.
Name a country famous for its pastry.
Name something a small man might buy that is big.
Tell me a man's name that begins with the letter "F."
Name a reason a teacher might suspect a sick note was written by the student and not the parent.
Name something you would find in a hair salon.
Name something every wife would like more of from her husband.
Name someone or something that gives the Queen of England a big headache.
Name something you hope people say about you when you are gone.
Name something men often carry in their pockets.
Name something that some people just cannot hold onto.
Name a famous person with "Taylor" in their name.
Name something that starts with "Bottom of the."
Name an animal you hope you could outrun if it were chasing you.
Name something a woman loves to see a man holding.
Name something people dump.
Name an appliance that is noisy.
Name something you would find at a laundromat.
Name a subject you might still struggle with if you went back to high school.
Name something that would be impossible to eat without teeth.
Name something that people complain is too dry.
Name something kids take turns doing when they come from a big family.
Name a part of a baby's body that is chubby.
According to men: What does George Clooney have that you don't?
Name someone who is living proof that diets do not work.
Name an occupation where there is no room for error.
Name a place you go where you don't want to sit behind someone with a big head.
Name something you might walk out on.
Name something that begins with the word "hand."
Name a wild animal that might come into your house through the "doggie door."
Name a movie monster that should have a star on the Hollywood walk of fame.
At what fast food chain do employees wear the dumbest looking uniforms?
Name something people like to look at when they are bored.
Name something a farmer has on his farm that he might end up eating.
Name a food that is crispy.
Name something you might put on your armpits if you ran out of deodorant.
What excuse do people use when they do not return phone calls?
Name a phrase that ends with the word "mouth."
Name something that might be stolen from your car.
Name the first thing someone does when they get home from work.
Name something around your house that might spring a leak.
According to women: "I judge a man by his ______."
Name a gift a woman expects to receive at least once in a relationship.
According to married women: Name something in your home your husband doesn't know how to clean.
Name something in your home a ghost might turn on and off to scare you.
Name an occupation where it would be terrible to lose your license.
According to men: Name the most annoying woman on daytime TV.
Name something you would do if your boss' bratty kid squirted you with a water gun.
Name something a cowboy might sell if he was broke.
According to men: Mirror, mirror on the wall who is the sexiest fairy tale character of them all?
Name a place people get all wet.
Name something Sandra Bullock achieved in a very busy year.
Name something people reach for in the middle of the night.
Name something that turns black.
According to married women: Name something your husband knows you spend money on but has no idea how much.
Name a hairy animal a bald man might train to sit on his head.
Name something a woman is always shopping for.
Name a complaint a man might have about a woman's lips.
Name a movie that women think is romantic and men think is corny.
Name an occupation that has a lot of "quacks."
Name a specific occupation in which you might have to hurt someone.
Who was the most famous "gunslinger" in the Wild West?
Name something you turn on at the office.
Name something a person might cheat on that could get them into trouble.
Name a way you can tell if someone is lying.
Name a celebrity who is no stranger to handcuffs.
Name something a girl might bring on a date in case the guy is boring.
Name a kid's game you would be shocked to see old folks playing at a nursing home.
When you are sick, name something that helps you make it through the night.
According to men: Name something you would be lost without.
Name an actress or actor today that would be perfect to star in a remake of "Psycho."
Name something of yours that, if it could talk, would say "wash me."
Name a sandwich that tastes great on a roll.
What is the biggest party city in the USA?
Name a fictional character whose name includes the word "little."
Besides San Francisco, name a U.S. city that starts with the word "San."
Name an article of clothing that starts with the word "sweat."
Name something that costs more money if you have a daughter instead of a son.
Name something a man might put on belonging to his wife if he got dressed in the dark.
Name an animal a man sounds like when he gets excited.
Name something you know about Alaska.
Name something women fall out of.
Name something you might forget to do in the morning if you did not sleep well.
What kind of person gets on people's nerves?
Name a part of your body you expect to have problems with when you get older.
Fill in the blank: Mel Gibson is not getting older he is getting ______.
Name the best thing in life that's free.
Name something a younger sister might hide if she didn't want her older sister to go out on a date.
Name the oldest thing in your parents house.
Name something a woman needs to be a good mother.
Fill in the blank: Every girl wants to marry a _____.
Name a word that starts with "mud."
Name something you associate with sumo wrestling.
Name something you would put on a steak.
Name something most people can't handle more than one of at a time.
Real or fictional, name someone who has big feet.
Name an activity that burns the most calories.
Fill in the blank: _______ loser.
Name something wives say they want and husbands say they can't afford.
According to women: Which male action star is no longer a sex symbol?
Name something people purposely buy damaged so they can get a discount.
Name a great American that kids learn about in grade school.
Name something a dieter might do after reaching their ideal weight.
Name something a doctor carries in his bag when making a house call.
Name a computer term that everybody knows.
Name something you can eat on a bun.
Name something a prom queen might save as a memento.
Name something you would see at a county fair.
Name a four-legged celebrity.
Name a kind of bag.
Name a kind of singer.
Name someone famous for wearing a moustache.
Name a Spanish word everybody knows.
Name a food that gets stuck in people's teeth.
Name a place you would find a bell.
Name an animal you can recognize just by its sound.
Name a common complaint people have about their boss.
Name a U.S. President you would describe as "handsome."
Name a food that might get pickled.
Name a celebrity who probably had plastic surgery.
What vegetable stinks to high heaven?
What is something people wash their hands after touching?
Name something that husbands think their wives spend too much money on.
Name a piece of information people include in a personal ad.
What is something that can get you labeled "cool" in high school?
Besides a cop, name someone who carries a badge.
Name something that is sold by pushy salespeople.
Name a specific food you should not eat on a queasy stomach.
Name a classic Disney movie parents watch with their children.
Name the most common annoying habit among men.
Other than your hair, name something that you shampoo.
Name a job that is hard to do when the weather is bad.
Name a fear many people have.
Name a place people like to bring a camera.
Name the first bill people pay after they get their paycheck.
Besides food and drink, name something the French are famous for.
Name something a fireman always keeps with him at all times.
Name a word or expression that begins with the word "Power."
Name someone who deserves the title "True genius."
Name an item a game show loser might win a lifetime supply of.
Besides a bed, name something people sleep on.
Name something people wait in line for.
Name an expensive item on a restaurant menu.
Name something that gets mixed.
Name a kind of test.
Name an important American document.
Name a field of science.
Name a famous puppet.
Name something or someone Dorothy encounters in "The Wizard of Oz."
Name someplace where you might find lint.
Name a problem that could occur while kissing someone.
Name a specific type of cream.
Name a place you bring a towel.
Name a character from "Alice in Wonderland".
Name a famous person named "Jane."
Name a famous person who lived in the Old West.
Name something people often lie about.
Besides in the bathroom, name a place where people might sing to themselves.
Name something specific that people make reservations for.
Name something you might find in a teenage girl's bedroom.
What's the most boring occupation?
Name something a woman might lie about when trying to impress a man.
What is something women buy which men think is a waste of money?
Name a sport which should be represented in the next Olympics.
Name a summer job a lot of teenagers get.
Name a kid's game you still enjoy playing.
Name a reason teenagers brag about their high school.
Name something you would send to somebody in the hospital.
Name a professional who gets paid by the hour.
Name something people do to cheer someone up.
Name something that people update regularly.
Name a food you can gorge on without getting fat.
Name something people do to let a member of the opposite sex know they are interested.
Besides math, name the most difficult subject in school.
Name an occupation that someone with a fear of heights should never consider.
Name a place on the human body where people will find the most unwanted hair.
Name something people do in their sleep.
Name a foreign country whose films are popular in America.
Name an artist whose paintings sell for millions.
Name an Ivy League university.
Name a famous boxing champion.
Name a group from the Motown era.
Name a musical instrument that is associated with another country.
Name an occasion when women wear corsages.
Name something people use to protect themselves from the sun.
Name something that is sticky.
Name something you put a patch on.
Name a vegetable people add to a salad.
Name a job that requires a truck.
Name something people do when they are short on cash.
Name a U.S. state where people like to drive convertibles.
Name a game kids play in kindergarten.
Name something it is okay for people to stare at.
Name a part of the body that frequently gets sunburned.
Name a type of drop.
Name a part of a woman's body that men prefer to be small.
Name an appetizer you would find at a Chinese restaurant.
Name a place where you might see someone playing the piano.
Name a game that is difficult to master.
Name a type of martial art.
Name a measuring device.
Name something you might see on a street corner.
Name a holiday when you give cards.
Name sport that does not use a ball.
Name someone Americans think of as one of our "Founding Fathers."
Name a time when you have to have your picture taken.
Who would you love to see host the next Oscars?
Name a board game guaranteed to start an argument.
Name a landmark a pilot might point out when flying cross-country.
Name a TV show named for its lead character.
Name something that chauvinistic males command their wives to do.
Name something people put in a safety deposit box.
Name an Olympic event which is timed.
Name something a single man might think a girl would be impressed by.
Name something that was worn in the 1970's.
Name something kids learn in preschool.
Besides clothing, name a product you see advertised in a fashion magazine.
Name a sport associated with another country.
When it comes to raising kids, name something grown children say they are going to do differently then their parents.
Name a candy bar with nuts in it.
Name something you spray out of a can.
Name something that runs on a schedule.
What is a word people often use in place of "whatchamacallit?"
Name an electronic device people use today that they did not use twenty years ago.
Name a famous sitcom family.
Name a food that tastes as good cold as it does hot.
Name a place where children often get separated from their parents.
Besides a house or car, name the most expensive purchase in someone's life.
Name a holiday that falls on the same day of the week each year.
Name a reason a person might need to move.
Name a place where you can find a lot of sweaty men.
Name something that comes in nuggets.
Who often takes their sweet time when you are in a big hurry?
Which actor's specialty is playing "nut cases?"
Name a place where people might get claustrophobic.
Name a complimentary item you would find in your hotel or motel room.
What is something Dad always teases Mom about?
Name a classic toy that has been around forever.
Name something that people have blessed.
Name a creature you might find living in your backyard.
Name a kind of bear.
Name a common nickname for a grandmother.
Name a kind of tree that streets are named after.
Name a part of the body people like to tattoo.
Name a place tourists visit in Los Angeles.
Name something you would find at a kid's birthday.
Name a dish you would cook for lots of people.
Name something you might find in a freezer.
Name a sport that requires a "good stroke."
Name a lady known for her great legs.
Name something you make for breakfast that requires eggs.
Name a word that most people yell at their dogs.
Name something people usually do at 11:00 pm.
Name someone people thank when they win an award.
Name something people look at that can temporarily blind them.
Name an event where you see proud parents.
Name something kids do to get attention from their parents.
Name something men obsess about.
Name a basic emotion a baby might experience in its first month of life.
Name something a boss might do to thank his employees for a job well done.
Name something a mother consistently reminds a child to do.
Name something people wish they had more of.
Name a food kids eat because their parents say it is good for them. ("Vegetables" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name an animal that is also an astrological sign.
Name something people learn by watching an instructional video.
Name something specific a stuntman does.
Besides chicken name a creature that lays eggs.
Name a famous TV doctor.
Name a fruit that people pick off trees.
Name a meat you would buy in a deli.
Name something someone might have a picture of on their winter sweater.
Name a famous person who is often imitated.
Name an ingredient you would find at a fancy salad bar.
Name a magazine you might find in a doctor's waiting room.
Name something people eat while walking down the street.
Name a part of the body that gives you problems as you get older.
What is a problem most people have in their lives?
Name a type of nut everyone loves.
Name one of the basic necessities of life.
Name something grandmothers like to knit or sew.
Name something men wish they could do every day.
Name an object young children sleep with.
Name a flavor of juice kids love.
Name a language you think would be hard to learn.
Name something people want to know when they are buying a used car.
Name something people mistake for a U.F.O.
Name something children do when they are in the "Terrible Two's."
Name a gift a woman might receive at a baby shower.
Name something people clip.
Besides water, name a drink that is clear.
Name something you might find under people's beds.
Name a famous TV detective.
Name a female Disney character.
According to men: What is something men look for when choosing a mate?
According to women: What is the part of a man's body that women check out first?
Name a common last name.
Name a type of bird people keep as a pet.
Name a type of omelet.
Name something people kick.
Name something you would see in a cave.
Name a way you get around when your car is in the shop.
Besides fish, name something you put in a fish tank.
Tell me how many days people go away for on vacation.
Name something that gets handed down from generation to generation.
Name something they do in the Boy Scouts.
Name a city where lots of rich people live.
Name a reason people take out a loan.
Name a type of key people have on their key ring.
Name a U.S. state where you do not want to be without your "long johns" in winter.
Name something a wife might change about herself that her husband would not notice.
Name something specific you check the date of before buying.
Name a European country Americans enjoy visiting.
Name something that makes you itch.
Name something people hate to clean.
Name a place people spend more money than they want to.
Name something people hang on their refrigerator.
Name an injury people often get as children.
Name something people put on a fire to keep it going.
Name something school kids do that their parents brag about.
Name a type of weather you are afraid of.
Name something travelers are afraid to lose while on vacation.
Name a job where you are required to smile.
Name a famous person named "Betty."
Besides a church, name a place where people get married.
Besides apple name a type of pie.
Name something that used to be free that there is now a charge for.
Name a stain children get on their clothes.
Name something you might ask a landlord before renting an apartment.
Name a reason a college student might call his or her parents.
Name a specific place in the house where people keep cleaning supplies.
Name something that has an antenna.
Name something your body does without you knowing it.
Name the first thing people look for when they try to guess a woman's age.
Name a food that makes people thirsty.
Name a performer or group whose music seems to span over generations.
Name something people file.
Name a part of the body that is supposed to be soft.
Name a beverage that has bubbles in it.
Name a dish that requires cheese.
Name something at home that people often run out of.
Name something men might lie about in order to get a woman.
Name a type of snake.
Name something little kids are told not to play with.
Name a popular imported European car.
Name something people might wash once a week.
Name a city that has a subway system.
Name a skill a secretary should have.
Name a comedian who is good looking.
Name a celebrity with a big nose.
Name a food that denture wearers should avoid.
Name a musical instrument that seems easy to learn to play.
Name a musical instrument which doesn't require lessons to play.
Name an actress who should gain a few pounds.
Name a country known for its wine.
Name a music section you would see in a record store.
Name a right that all Americans are born with.
Name something moms should not have to do on Mother's Day.
Name a type of pie not made from fruit.
Name something that sparkles.
Name a possession a mother passes on to her daughter.
Name an extra charge you might have to pay when checking out of a hotel.
Name something a person might give back to a lover when the relationship is over.
Name a place where you see lots of joggers.
Name a place where you see benches.
Name a room in the house where accidents might happen.
Name a place where a woman might go to meet a rich husband.
Name a service people cancel when they move.
Name a section on a restaurant menu.
Name a job that requires putting up with lots of grief from the public.
Besides money, name something people work hard to earn.
Name a sport that is considered graceful.
Besides sporting events, name a television show that is on once a year.
Name a word used to describe the weather.
Besides a stereo, name something a thief might steal from a car.
Name a wild animal that often becomes roadkill.
Name a fruit that has a peel.
Name a cut of steak.
Real or fictional, name a famous Queen.
Name a celebrity who is famous for his or her nose.
Name an illness that kids give to each other.
Name something people write down so they will not forget.
Besides sleeping name something that people do with their eyes closed.
Name a famous female comedian.
Name the first food people learn how to cook.
Name something men spray or rub on their bodies.
Name a professional who blows a whistle.
Name a place where people keep photos.
Name a TV show that had a famous theme song.
Name a job found in every school.
Name a great toy for a child who likes to build things.
Name an occupation where you hear a lot of people's problems.
Name a place people keep money on vacation.
Name something married couples check with each other before doing.
Name something people have to be careful of when they are swimming in the ocean.
Name something you should not do when you are tired.
Name something Michael Jordan is famous for endorsing.
Name an occupation that requires a uniform.
Name a performer in the circus.
Name something kids like to jump on.
Name something you would see in a city park.
Name something that yellows with age.
Name something kids borrow from their parents.
Name something telephone solicitors try to sell over the phone.
Besides medicine, name something people keep in their medicine cabinet.
Besides food, name something that comes in a can.
Name a pet people would not take for a walk.
Name a magazine aimed at women.
Name something college students stay up all night doing.
Name something people buy tickets for.
Tell me a sign that you are becoming middle-aged.
Name a musical instrument that would not make sense in a marching band.
Name a U.S. national park.
Name a part of a bicycle.
Name a place that begins with the word "north."
Name a food served with melted cheese on it.
Name a game played at picnics.
Name a kind of product that can be "mild."
Name a kind of wood.
Name a famous hotel in Las Vegas.
Name something people do to kill time during a long airplane flight.
Name a popular flavor of lollipop.
Name a movie starring a dog.
Name a sport where you might get your nose broken.
Name something that squeamish people would not eat.
Name a space you might land on in Monopoly.
Besides a car, name something that runs on gasoline.
Name a food or drink which comes in a low-calorie version.
Name something in a person's house that stays on all night long.
Name a popular magazine which had a one-word title.
Name something specific that might delay a plane's takeoff.
Name a feature people pay extra for when buying a new car.
Name something that might rattle.
Name something that sexy women are compared to.
Name a specific competition in the Miss America pageant.
Name a reason someone might have a "bad hair" day.
Name something that grows on a pregnant woman.
Name something a hairstylist uses.
Name something people do more of on vacation.
Name a popular type of salad.
Name an animal with spots.
Name a city that is considered romantic.
Name a piece of equipment you would find at a playground.
Name a body part people wash often.
Name a vehicle that does not require gasoline.
Name an animal that is striped.
Name a job that men can do shirtless.
Besides the planets, name something you would see in our galaxy.
According to men: What animal are women often compared to?
Name something people do to cool down on a hot summer day.
Besides eating, name something people do with their mouths.
Name a profession where ethics really do not count.
Name something a woman needs to know about a man before she marries him.
Name a type of dog you should not get if you live in a tiny apartment.
Name a kind of tape.
Name a world famous painting.
Name a holiday when people call their moms.
Name something people wish they were smarter about.
According to women: What is the most important element in a relationship?
Name something people put on bagels.
Name something children need to memorize.
Name a TV father who is a bad example of a dad.
Name something that has a chip in it.
Name something kids think their parents are clueless about.
Name the first item people would take with them if their house was on fire.
Name a family occasion where dad might bring out the video camera.
Besides turkey name a dish served at Thanksgiving.
Name a magazine that is filled with pictures of celebrities.
Besides trash name something specific people throw away every day.
Name a type of worker who often goes on strike.
Name something people like to do at the same time every day.
Name something women love to do in the ladies room.
Name a word some people use to describe their mother-in-law.
Name something insomniacs do when they cannot sleep.
Name an organ people donate.
Name a place you associate with palm trees.
Name something men do more of when their mate is away.
Name something parents buy for their children when they are going back to school.
Name something sold on a street corner.
Name something a father teaches his son about.
Name a song parents sing to their children.
Name something that makes people sneeze.
Name something people add sugar to.
Name something people clean out of their cars.
Name a type of bean found in a salad.
Besides meat, name a specific ingredient found in a stew.
Name a popular U.S. landmark.
Name a fruit with lots of seeds.
Name something kids need to take with them to camp.
Name something you would see in a church.
Name something people do to settle an upset stomach.
Name something you might see at the Vatican.
Name something people do while watching television.
Name the hardest part about being a homemaker.
Name a job that requires a tuxedo.
Name a fruit that is dried.
Name something people carry with them "just in case."
Name a sport that is not played on grass.
Name a food people dip in butter.
Name an electrical appliance people use in the bathroom.
Name a place where people air their dirty laundry.
Name something people do not always get right the first time.
Name a famous Ann or Annie.
Name a famous Carol.
Name a famous Cathy.
Name a famous Debbie or Deborah.
Name a famous Mary.
Name a famous Michelle.
Name a place on the body where people have liposuction.
Name a part of the body that usually shows signs of aging first.
Name a famous Nancy.
Name a famous Pat.
Name a famous Shirley.
Name a famous Susan or Suzanne.
Name a famous Mark.
Name a famous Paul.
Name a famous Tom or Thomas.
Name a famous Ben.
Name a famous Bob or Robert.
Name a famous David.
Besides the US, name a country where people speak English.
Name a famous Fred.
Name a famous George.
Name a famous Harry.
Name a famous Joe or Joseph.
Name something about a man which impresses a woman.
Name a type of ring that people wear.
Name a job in a supermarket.
Name a circus act that the crowd really loves.
Name something people buy by the roll.
Name something that flutters.
Name something that people bring to a pawn shop. ("Jewelry" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name something people say they would do if only they had the money.
Name something a babysitter might do after the kids are asleep.
Name something women talk about with their hairdressers.
Name something you wait for in a restaurant.
Name something men say they hate to give up when they get married.
Besides money, name the most important thing people carry on them.
Besides fancy food, name something only expensive restaurants have.
Name a way you can tell someone is cold without them saying a word.
Name something people own that is made out of glass.
Name something people wear when they want to dress casual.
Name another word for "great."
Name an animal known for its speed.
Name someone a man relies on for advice.
Name a specific reason people get fired from their jobs.
Name an electrical appliance most women want on a desert island.
Name a reason a kiss might be bad.
Name a country that is famous for fine automobiles.
Name a place people put candles.
Name something people put a padlock on.
Name something teenagers keep in their school lockers.
Name a food people eat at a carnival.
Name something people climb.
Name a place where you might find pushy salesmen.
Name something men think women do more of after they are married.
Name something kids like to do on Saturdays.
Name something people label "Fragile" when moving.
Name a place people keep a family photo.
Name something new that kids might get at the start of a school year.
Name the biggest complaint people have about their co-workers.
Name something adults do not miss about their teenage years.
Name something New York City claims to have the very best of.
Name something pack rats have a hard time throwing out.
Name something your partner might say you do while you are asleep.
Name something that tastes best fresh out of the oven.
Name something a man does in front of the mirror.
Name something that gets backed up.
Name something people do before having their picture taken.
Name something a person might forget to put on if they leave the house in a hurry.
Who was the most influential person of the 20th Century?
Name something men do not do as often as women.
Name something parents do to get a baby to stop crying.
Name something people buy that is scented.
Name something people wrap a present in when they are all out of gift wrap.
Name a place people stop on their way home from work.
Name something only a best friend would ask to borrow.
Name a gift newlyweds often get doubles of.
Name something people do and then feel guilty about.
Name something that gives you goose bumps.
Name an occasion when a wife would be upset if her husband did not give her a gift.
Name something that gives off light.
Name something women do to their hair when they have a bad hair day.
Name a food that goes great with potato chips.
Name a product that convenience stores sell the most of.
Name a dangerous animal that some people keep as a pet.
Name another word for "smart."
Name a well-known character who is green.
Name an item you buy that needs to be assembled. ("Furniture" is not an answer. Be more specific.)
Name a machine people use to really work up a sweat at the gym.
Name a type of cookie kids love.
Name an office responsibility that bosses consider to be "beneath them."
Besides chocolate, name something you would find in a candy bar.
Name a piece of information you would expect to be printed on a business card.
Name an artificial body part a person might have.
Name a ball that is hard to dribble.
Name a lie people tell in order to get off a boring telephone conversation.
Name an inventor kids learn about in school.
Name something a woman likes a man to have plenty of.
Name a place where people try to sneak in line ahead of you.
Name something people fight about with their next-door neighbors.
Name something specific that gets plugged.
According to women: What career would the perfect man have?
Name a breakfast food people might also eat for dinner.
Name something people associate with a nerd.
Name a fruit often found in fruit salad.
Besides too much homework, name the biggest complaint kids have about their teachers.
Who is the celebrity you would most hate to sit next to on a long flight?
Name a board game that requires the most skill.
Name an awards show that is broadcast on television.
Name something people eat or drink when they have a sore throat.
Name a popular topping for ice cream.
Tell me something you would not be able to do if your water was shut off.
Name someone who is known for their cookies.
Besides Christmas, name a reason you might send someone a greeting card.
What is the most boring sporting event to watch?
Name something that people associate with Hawaii.
Name something Philadelphia is famous for.
Name a toy you would give a baby.
Name a food people eat while watching the Super Bowl.
Name a place where you might find a payphone.
Name a food that has a hole in it.
Name the biggest gripe patients have about hospitals.
Name something you would find on a donut.
Besides his wife, name a person a man might send flowers to.
Name a famous person known for having a lot of marriages.
Name something hikers carry in their backpacks.
Name the first thing a newly-married couple fights about.
Name something people do to pass the time when they are stuck in traffic.
Name something women get excited about.
Name an appliance you do not use often.
Name a specific type of doctor.
Name something a woman might keep in her purse.
Name an occupation in which a man would meet a lot of women.
Name something you might do if you saw your lottery numbers picked on television.
Name something people put plugs in.
Name something people gossip about in an office.
Name something you would not want to break down before you host a big party.
Name a character from "The Flintstones."
Name a board game that brings out the most obnoxious side of some people.
Name a dangerous snake.
Name a type of business that has regular customers.
Which machine do you wish had never been invented?
Name a country known for its ancient ruins.
Name something you plan months in advance.
Name a food you would find in a Mexican restaurant.
Name something you can rent.
Name the hardest thing to teach a dog to do.
Name something a bald person does not need to buy.
Name something parents cannot wait for their kids to be old enough to do.
Name a job where you might have to work all night.
Name something a man would take off his toupee to do.
Name a reason a kid might wake up his parents in the middle of the night.
Name something people wear that is white.
Name something people save.
Name something you use to wash a car.
Name a fruit you can eat for breakfast.
Name a type of fish people order at fine restaurants.
Name something people register for.
Name a sport where you "serve" a ball.
Tell me something a wife expects her husband to do on their anniversary.
Name a symptom people have when they have a cold.
Name something people try to peek through.
Name something people accidentally walk into.
Name something California is famous for.
Name a plant that hurts if you touch it.
Name a famous singer whose performances really create a "stir."
Name an expression with the word "monkey" in it.
Name something London is famous for.
Name a job more people have in California than in any other state.
Tell me another name for the Devil.
Name a place where people keep pictures of their spouse.
Name somewhere people place flowers.
Name a television show about lawyers.
Name a European city that is a popular tourist destination.
Name an animal you would find on a farm.
Name an ingredient in a cake.
Name a world religion which ends in "-ism."
Name a type of store you would find in a strip mall.
Name a type of berry.
Name a word or phrase with the word "quarter" in it.
Name a famous American astronaut.
Name something women have trouble doing when they are pregnant.
Name a food women crave when they are pregnant.
Name a famous bald person.
Name a way shrimp is prepared.
Name something that can be stretched.
Name a word or phrase which includes the word "basket."
Name a U.S. city that starts with the letter "C."
Name a type of vehicle that holds a lot of people.
Besides an ocean, name a body of water.
Name something that some people do only on Sunday morning.
Besides the food, name a reason you might recommend a restaurant.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "World."
Name a US state where cows might outnumber people.
Name something that is checkered.
Name a state people visit to go skiing.
Name something tourists see when they go to Rome.
Name a type of class couples frequently take together.
Name something people swear on or to.
According to women: What impresses a woman on a first date?
Name something a man might wear to bed.
Name something you would never buy on the Internet.
Name a sport that a lot of senior citizens play.
Name a place that does its best business in the morning.
Name a sport women enjoy watching more than men.
What is the best way for a married man to avoid a fight with his wife.
Besides a doctor, name a profession people think has really smart people on it.
According to women: Besides underwear, what item of clothing will men wear even if it has a hole in it?
Name a type of news story they usually send a TV helicopter to cover.
Name something a person might complain about at the gym.
Name a decoration people put outside their house at Christmas.
Besides golfers, name something you would see on a golf course.
What was the greatest band of the 1990's.
Name something about a man's car that he might brag about.
Name something an Inuit probably would not own.
Name a place where people are on their best behavior.
Name a foreign country whose food Americans love to eat.
Name a profession people make mean jokes about.
Name a reason people move from the city to live in the suburbs.
Name a farm animal you will never see pulling a plow.
Name a holiday when most people in the U.S. get the day off.
Name a piece of information found on a birth certificate.
Tell me something people cook on a backyard grill.
Besides chicken, name a bird people eat.
Name a place that is crowded on nice days.
Name a vegetable used in Asian cooking.
Name something people hang from their rearview mirrors.
Name something that tastes yucky when it's cold.
Name a place in the house where people store their junk.
Name a candy that sticks to your teeth.
Name something you might see on a teacher's desk.
Name somewhere pet lovers would bring their pets if they were allowed to.
Name a product that athletes often endorse.
Name something you can see a lot of in a Las Vegas casino.
Name a food that is sometimes served with bones in it.
Name a type of book that people DO NOT read for pleasure.
Besides a shop, name something a barber needs to get started in business.
Name something you might see a firefighter carrying.
Name an animal that has whiskers.
Name a type of store you can tell you are in just by its smell.
Name something people throw at a track and field meet.
Name a gripe people have about New York.
Name a body part that gets sore after a long day's work.
Name some famous brothers.
Name someone famous named Robin.
Name a prop wrestlers use to beat their opponents silly.
Name something rich people love to spend their money on.
Name an animal hikers fear running into.
Name something that gets carved.
Name a food that is often cooked in the microwave.
Name something people do to try to get a baby to go to sleep.
Name something a model does to make sure she looks just right for her big photo.
Name a business where you hear a lot of people complain about the service.
Which famous person's diary you would most like to read?
Name a specific reason people might call in sick to work even if they are not sick.
Name a cartoon character with big ears.
Name something you would find in an operating room.
According to women: Why might a girl call her date cheap?
Name a vegetable that is commonly found in soup.
Name a beverage kids drink with dinner.
Name an actor who is known for his muscles.
Name something a mad scientist might have in his laboratory.
Name something you associate with Sherlock Holmes.
Besides meat, name something you would find in a TV dinner.
Name something a skinny model might keep in her refrigerator.
Name something you keep in your wallet or purse that has a number on it.
Name something most people only have time to do on weekends.
Name something diners often leave on their plates at a restaurant.
Tell me a sign that a restaurant should be closed by the Board of Health.
Name something people get autographed.
Name something that people usually rent for just one day.
Name something associated with the moon.
Name something that is sugar-coated.
Name a kind of bird you might see in your backyard.
Name something people keep near the fireplace.
Name something people stick pins in.
Name a famous "Jimmy."
Name something you would need if you were lost at sea.
Name something associated with a turtle.
Name a kind of place that is noisy.
Name something dogs fetch.
Name something people do on Christmas Day.
Name something a teenage girl might envy about other teenage girls.
Name something you would find on a patio.
Name a food that is red on the inside.
Name a type of movie they do not make like they used to.
Name a job at the airport.
Name something people feel uncomfortable doing by themselves.
Name something you associate with Paris, France.
Besides snow, name something you would need to make a snowman.
Name a sign that Christmas is coming.
Name something people sit down to do.
Name a reason people might choose one bank over another.
Name something that gets dull.
Name a place kids go on a school field trip.
Name something people do more of at Christmas time.
Name a downside to getting a tattoo.
Name something people reach for once they are in bed.
Name something there is more of in the suburbs.
Name a country an art student might want to visit.
Name something babies do much more often than adults.
Name an animal people find graceful.
Name something people are allergic to.
Name a part of the body that karate experts use to break boards.
Name something people associate with elephants.
Name a food people usually go to a deli to get.
Name a villain Batman and Robin are always fighting.
Besides grass, name something people have in their front yard.
Name something dog owners wish their dogs could do without their help.
Name a way you can tell that Halloween is coming.
Name a type of music that many people cannot stand.
Name something people do with their fingernails.
Name a piece of women's clothing men are glad they do not have to wear.
Name a foreign country that is considered our friend.
Name a fruit you can eat with one bite.
Name a famous fictional island.
Name a word that starts with "Tooth."
Name another word or term for "Dog."
Name something people keep by their toilets.
Name a reason why people might suddenly close their car window.
Name a body part that makes noise.
Name a kind of doctor you would not want the whole world to know you have seen.
Name something karate experts break.
Name something that makes a man look distinguished.
Name a character from Sesame Street.
Name something you associate with Switzerland.
Name something you cannot do as well when you have a cold.
Name something fish have that people do not.
Name something you would see at a Mexican fiesta.
Name something people hang up at Christmas.
According to men: Name a way you might know that a woman is rich.
Name something an 8-year-old might bring with them when they stay over at Grandma's house.
Name something people use to stir their drink.
Name something that might be poisonous.
Name a fast food restaurant that does not serve hamburgers.
Name something that begins with the word "new."
Name something you might add to a meatloaf.
Name something you would see inside a taxicab.
Name a dental procedure people hate.
Name something you need if you plan to scuba dive.
Name a word or phrase with the word "club" in it.
Name something embarrassing that might happen during a job interview.
Name an occupation where people make a ton of money.
Name a good birthday gift for a fisherman.
Name a famous singer who is also an actress.
Name someone a teenager would not want to show up at their party.
Name something that starts with the word "lady."
Name a souvenir people get at baseball games.
Name a country in South America.
Name a type of drum.
Name something you would find at a tennis match.
Name something you scrub.
Name something you would see at a football game.
Name something embarrassing you might only notice by looking in the mirror.
Name something you associate with Bugs Bunny.
Name something you would find at a Chinese restaurant.
Name something you might see on a bathroom floor.
Name a place people make a "pit stop" on long road trips.
Name a murder weapon used in the game of Clue.
Name a place on the body where a doctor might stick something.
Name something people might forget to pack when they are going on a long trip.
Name a fruit or vegetable bartenders use.
Name a city known for its museums.
Name a state whose name is hard to spell.
Name an occupation where you are expected to be a good role model.
Name an occupation where you would probably smell awful.
Name something people pay extra for when they are taking an airplane flight.
Name the worst thing a jogger could forget to put on before going for a run.
Besides a flag, name something each state has their own version of.
Name something you associate with Jay Leno.
Name a good place to take kids for a birthday party.
Name a card game people play for money.
Name a food people buy at a gourmet shop.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "silver."
Give me another word for "happy."
Name something you need to make a movie.
Name a type of fruit juice people use in mixed drinks.
Name something you would expect to see at a Hollywood movie premiere.
Name a reason a kid might get a day off from school.
Name a food you would find on a shish kebab.
Name a complaint a high school teacher might have about her job.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "French."
Name a famous Jesse.
Name something people use to cure a backache.
Name another word for "pretty."
Name something a plant needs to grow.
When you order breakfast in a restaurant, name something you usually get with your eggs.
Name something restaurants serve at a Sunday brunch.
Name a foreign language many Americans learn in school.
Name a country that begins with the letter "C."
Name a famous character who wore a mask.
Name a word or phrase that begins with the word "string."
Name something that is slimy.
Name something that has a string on it.
Name something you might use if you were going to demolish a building.
Name someone who is famous for being a chef.
Name something people do on the day after Christmas.
Name an animal magicians use in their act.
Name a noise that keeps you up at night.
Name a playing piece in the game Monopoly.
Name an animal that might "charge" if you get in its way.
Name an animal that starts with the letter "D."
Name something that might be floppy.
Name a word or phrase that starts with "chain."
Name something people use oil for.
Name an animal that is green.
Name something that has a long neck.
Name a reason you might have to set your clock.
Name a game adults play at a party.
Besides fish, name an animal people keep in an aquarium.
Name something clouds look like they are made of.
Name a kind of sandwich.
Name something people have to run to catch.
Name a famous award.
Name a city that has a lot of lights.
Name an animal people are afraid of.
Name something some people do not take off when they go to bed.
Name something associated with the Pope.
Besides gambling, name something people spend money on in Las Vegas.
Besides animals, name something you would see on a farm.
Name a person who uses a ladder at work.
Name an activity that makes people want to go to sleep.
Name something in nature a poet might write about.
Besides a sandwich, name something a mom might pack into her child's lunchbox.
Name a problem a college student might have with his roommate.
Name a famous dog from a comic strip.
Name a musical instrument that is soothing to listen to.
Name a piece of sporting equipment that has its own carrying case.
Name an animal that lives underground.
Name a bird that is brightly colored.
Name a way someone can become a millionaire.
Name something that little boys hate being told to do.
Name something associated with King Arthur.
Besides a house, name something people live in.
Name a children's story that has the word "three" in the title.
Name another word for "father."
Name a place where someone gives their car to a stranger.
Name something you'd find on the kitchen table.
Name someone who uses a needle.
Name a job that involves horses.
Name something you associate with Walt Disney.
Name the first thing people turn on when they wake up in the morning.
Name something you might ask to have passed to you at the dinner table.
Name something you need to make a cheesecake.
Name a word that ends in "scope."
Tell me a word you might use to describe Bill Gates.
According to women: which occupation has the sexiest men?
Name something associated with Donny and Marie.
Name something people associate with Madonna.
Name a catalog that men like to look at.
Name a complaint women have about their legs.
Name a specific shade of blue.
Name a sport where the fans might yell "Crush 'em!"
Name a flavor of potato chip.
Name something country singers wear at the Grand Ole Opry.
Name an occasion where people take lots of pictures.
Name a Hollywood hunk women might want to be in a love scene with?
Name something which only happens to people once a year.
Name a beverage served hot.
Name an occupation that ends with the word "man".
Name something tourists see in Egypt.
Name someone people get nervous in front of.
Tell me something people pitch
Name something that might be blown off you on a windy day.